 COLONEL SYKES  remarked that this was another instance of the evil from which they had suffered on the preceding evening, by which the time of the House was taken up in prematurely discussing measures with the particulars of which they were unacquainted.
 MR. M'LAREN , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish the Annuity Tax, or Ministers' Money, in the parish of Canongate, within Edinburgh, and to make other provisions respecting the stipend of the Minister in that parish, I and of the Ministers in the city parishes said, he understood that the usual courtesy would be extended to him on that occasion, and that no opposition would be offered to the introduction of the Bill. He would not therefore take up the time of the House by making any statement in reference to the details of the measure he introduced. He would merely take that opportunity of saying, in one sentence, that the Bill he now asked leave to bring in had been modified considerably from that of last year; and that he hoped that when the Bill was printed, and hon. Members had made themselves acquainted with its contents, those who opposed the Bill of last year would be induced to give the present Bill their hearty support. The Bill had now been approved by twenty-eight members of the Magistracy and Town Council of Edinburgh—only six having voted against it. The hon. Member concluded by moving for leave to bring in the Bill.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he might, perhaps, be permitted to say a word in explanation of the objection made by the hon. Baronet. His speech had shown the inconvenience of discussing a Bill with the provisions of which he must be necessarily unacquainted, since it had not yet been printed. If the hon. Baronet had waited until the Bill had been printed and in the hands of Members, he would have found that one of the clauses proposed to reduce the 3 d. d. d. d. 283
 ME. MILLER  seconded the Motion.
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  said, he did not rise to oppose the introduction of the Bill; but he must express his astonishment, after what took place last Session, when the Bill introduced by the hon. Member was thrown out, after considerable debate in the House, that he should now propose to bring in a measure nearly identical in character with that which he formerly proposed. Last year, immediately after the rejection of that Bill, the hon. Member for Edinburgh introduced a second measure to abolish the municipal rate of a Id. in the pound, imposed by the Act of 1860, as a compensation to the city creditors in lieu of seat rents handed over to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. That was a right and proper thing to do, if it were generally admitted that the city's funds were in such a state that they could well afford to do without the Id., but he (Sir Graham Montgomery) contended that the proper course for the hon. Member to pursue now was to bring in a Bill to
 281 d. d. d. d. d d 282
 MR. GLADSTONE : As far as I am concerned, I thank the right hon. Gentleman. The arrangement that he proposes 
 MR. GLADSTONE : With regard to what has been said on the question of the Irish Borough Boundaries, we cannot expect that every gentleman will surrender every opinion he may entertain on that subject; but I confess it appears to me that the right hon. Gentleman is acting quite within the discretion in his province and that of the Government if he thinks fit to appoint a Commission upon the authority of the Executive, and presents it as part of his plan. I do not conceive that any practical objection can arise to the course that he proposes.
 MR. CORRY : Sir, in answering the Question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, perhaps the House will allow me, as it has reference to a case which has excited a very painful interest, to read some extracts from documents which the Admiralty have received on the subject. The Senior Lieutenant of Her Majesty's ship  Favourite "In compliance with your memorandum of the 19th of October, regarding the circumstances with which I am acquainted of the death of George Addison, I have the honour to report that on the evening of the 18th of October, about 6.30 p.m., George Addison was reported to me drunk, and on seeing him on the quarter-deck, in the presence of the officer of the watch and the master-at-arms, I ordered him under the sentry's charge on the starboard side of the steerage abreast the mainmast. His manner was so violent and noisy that I considered it necessary that he should be gagged (which was done about 6.55 p.m.) to prevent him making a disturbance in the ship.…. The time that elapsed between the gag being applied and removed was, to the best of my belief, about a quarter of an hour. I then reported the case to you, and you ordered me to send the master-at-arms on shore to search for a man breaking his leave. The sergeant had charge during the absence of the master-at-arms, and visited the prisoner in the steerage several times. At about 8.30 p.m. the Assistant-Surgeon was called away from the ward room." "I have the honour to inform you that the man mentioned (George Addison) was brought on board at 6.30 p.m. on the 18th of October, 1867, in a violent state of excitement from drink. As this man was observed by the sergeant of Marines to be unusually quiet the medical officer on board was called to see him at 8.30 p.m., when he found that life was extinct. From a reference to the Sick Journal I find that this man has been nine times on the sick list for periods varying from two days to sixty-two days, and that he had suffered from scrofula, and from lung and heart disease. … I am of opinion that this man's death resulted from disease of the heart, accelerated by the use of the alcoholic poison; and probably, also, by the use of the gag employed to quiet him." Sphinx, Fawn, "First, That there appears to have been nothing unusual, according to the custom of the service, in giving the order to gag the late George
 37 Favourite, "I beg to state that Captain Shortt has informed me that the ship's company have been satisfied with the inquiry which has been instituted, and trust their Lordships will consider that the whole case has been dealt with by me in a manner suitable to its requirements."
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has received further information respecting the mortality in the 86th Regiment, lately landed in the Mauritius, and, whether he has taken, or intends to take, any steps for the removal of the Regiment during the epidemic in that island?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was anxious that the Bill should proceed to the House of Lords at a period when that assembly was not much occupied with other business. The discussion of the Estimates would take some time, and he could not hope to be able to bring it on before midnight. He would promise in any case not to proceed with it after half-past twelve o'clock. If any desire was exhibited for general discussion of the principle of the Bill he could not, of course, proceed with it at that hour; but he trusted that the House would permit him to go on with it that evening.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he was anxious to consult the hon. and learned Gentleman's convenience and the convenience of other hon. Members as far as he possibly could; but his hon. and learned Friend knew as well as he did the difficulty which attended the proposal of such a Motion at an early period of the evening. He would, however, promise not to bring it on after one o'clock.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was not his intention to follow the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) through his long and very able statement; but he wished to make an observation or two on some points that provoked criticism and required explanation. The right hon. Baronet had informed the Committee that the sum asked for was to all practicable purposes the same as that asked for last year; but the Committee would remember with regret that, although the Estimate for the current year was only slightly in excess of the year 1867–8, that year's Estimate largely exceeded the Estimate which it was his (the Marquess of Hartington's) duty to submit of the year before. The right hon. Baronet wished the Committee to pass an Estimate which exceeded by £1,500,000 the last Estimate of Lord Russell's Government. Of course, it was easy, as he had said last year, to find very excellent reasons for an increase of expenditure, and he was not prepared to place his finger on any item where a proposed increase should be refused, or where a Vote might be diminished; but although a good case might, in many instances, be made out for a proposed increase of expenditure, it was very certain that nothing but the most constant supervision by the Secretary of State, coupled with a strong determination on his part that the Estimate should not be increased, could insure economy and produce reduction in the annual charge. The Committee should not forget that during the last three or four years of the Administration which preceded the present one the Estimates for the Army showed a decrease year by year, while the Estimates of the present Government showed year by year an increasing sum. However, he joined with the right hon. Baronet in congratulating the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon on the success of his measures for recruiting and re-enlistment. It might not be an unmixed benefit that that should re-enlist a large number of men; but it was an unmixed benefit that they should have the offer of them. He was sorry he could not extend his congratulations to the Government on the result of their plan for creating a Reserve force. Apparently the Government did not expect any very great result from those measures, which had been introduced to the House with some little appearance of importance. This was at least the case as regards the current year. As far as he could make out, the
 62 63 64 65
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that the noble Marquess had commenced by drawing a comparison between the present Estimates and those for the last year during which he (the Marquess of Hartington) had been in office as Minister for War. The noble Marquess was perfectly correct in saying that the estimated military expenditure for the current year was greater than the actual expenditure of 1865–6 by £1,340,667; but the practical question for the House was what had been the cause of that increase. With the expenditure of 1865–6, the War Department of that day was not able to fill up the ordinary casualties in the army; they had not a breech-loading rifle in the service. There is a great increase in the Estimates on Votes 12 and 13; but during the time the noble Marquess was at the head of the Department it had not fixed upon a pattern. In fact, it was at a stand-still. Had the increase in the Estimates produced the desired effects? The increased pay of the army raised the Votes by the amount of between £300,000 and £400,000, but that increase had put an end to what he confessed to have felt to be a source of great anxiety during two years. Last year was an exceptional year. No fewer than 32,000 men were entitled to their discharge, and their places must be filled up. But there was no longer any anxiety about that, though it had been said that the 2 d. d. 66 67
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he was glad that his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War had adopted the suggestion of his right hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), which would prevent the War Department from calling on the Militia to furnish recruits to the army during a time of peace. He did not, however, understand, what advantage would be derived from placing under one command the forces which the right hon. Baronet proposed to place under that, able and courteous officer, General Lindsay. Was the hon. and gallant General's command to be an actual one? The Militia were, under the Mutiny Act, to be in time of war taken up for home service; but during the last war they did more—they not only filled up gaps in the ranks of the regular army on foreign service, but sent out a larger force than had been in the first instance embarked for the Crimea. The Yeomanry were under the Mutiny Act; but he did not suppose his right hon. Friend proposed to put the Volunteers under it, because they appeared to dislike very much the control of the Horse Guards. He thought the proposed amalgamation of reserved forces required some further information.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The Motion, Sir, that I propose to make on the subject of the Irish Church will be in the form of three "Resolutions to be moved in Committee on Acts relating to the Established Church in Ireland, and the terms of the three Resolutions will be these—
 " Resolved, 
 "1. That, in the opinion of this House, it is necessary that the Established Church of Ireland should cease to exist as an Establishment, due regard being had to all personal interests and to all individual rights of property." "2. That, subject to the foregoing considerations, it is expedient to prevent the creation of new personal interests by the exercise of any public patronage, and to confine the operations of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of Ireland to objects of immediate necessity, or involving individual rights, pending the final decision of Parliament." "3. That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, humbly to pray that, with a view to the purposes aforesaid, tier Majesty would be graciously pleased to place at the disposal of Parliament,
 33
 MR. OTWAY  in rising to move that the Vote be reduced by the number of 2,758 men said, the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War was rather inconsistent. The right hon. Baronet had indicated a desire for economy; but, at the same time, the only economy which he seemed to have any hope of effecting was insignificant and hardly worth mentioning in an expenditure so vast. It was strange to hear the Secretary for War admit that these military accounts were no accounts at all—that they contained inaccuracies of such a character that it was impossible to determine from them what our military expenditure was. The expense occasioned in transport by the invaliding of soldiers was, for instance, charged to the navy, although it properly arose in the army. But it was evident that, in such a case, all that was necessary to prevent confusion was that a debtor and creditor account should be kept
 83 84 employés 85 s. 86 s. 87 entrepôt; 88 89
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, the right hon. Gentleman had referred to him in the course of his speech as if he had stated that the British army cost £1;5,000,000. He was aware, however, that there was a sum of £2,000,000 under the head of repayments, which the Government would be recouped, and which reduced the army expenditure to £13,000,000. He believed that the public were led into error by these figures, and that they thought our army cost the extravagant sum of £130 per man. Many items were not fairly chargeable upon the army. For instance, as had been pointed out, there was the item of warlike Stores for the navy, though this was, perhaps, balanced by the transport furnished for the army by the sister service. On this point he suggested whether it would not be a good plan to set up a system of army transport for the army alone, quite independent of the navy. Deducting all the items which were not fairly chargeable against the regular forces, there only remained £11,750,000, or £86 per man; and this comprised food, clothing, arms, equipment, horses, and the pay of every single person connected with the army, from the right hon. Baronet downwards. He was glad to hear the improvements proposed in the Militia, which was the real constitutional force of Reserve to which we must look. It would be well that this force should be brought into closer relations with the regular army; and if it were placed in barracks when called out, that would be a great advantage, for discipline and morality could never be maintained under the system of billeting. Militia officers ought to receive greater encouragement, and he was much gratified at hearing that something was about to be done for that ill-used class of Militia officers, the
 92 d.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, Whether he had taken into consideration the subject of granting pensions to the Quartermasters in the Militia in Ireland? There were, he believed, two quartermasters in Ireland who had been between fifty and sixty years in the service, and who could not retire because they would not be entitled to pensions. Thus the service was burdened with men who could not efficiently discharge their duty. In justice to them something ought to be done. He might add that their actual income was only £115 a year, including lodging money.
 MR. OTWAY  concurred in the desirableness of withdrawing the Amendment; but nothing that he had heard had at all altered his opinion as to the propriety of withdrawing our troops from the colonial out-stations, which now absorbed so great a number of them. It seemed to be a singularly difficult thing to make any reduction in the Estimates. At first he attempted to reduce the amount of expenditure, and to-night he attempted to reduce the number of men. But he could see the force of his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire's objection to a reduction of the number of men, and under these circumstances he did not think it would be right to put the Committee to the trouble of dividing.
 MR. OTWAY  hoped the right hon. Baronet would now report Progress, as he believed the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield (Major Anson) had something to say on this Vote.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he believed the Bill had not yet been printed, and he thought it was too late to discuss it on this occasion. He intended to raise a very important question — namely, the infliction of corporal punishment. He believed the Bill contained a clause enacting an application of corporal punishment, and he therefore asked the House to pause before reading the Bill a second time. He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman, on the grounds of the rights of Members not to push the second reading of a Bill which Members had not read.
 MR. CORRY  said, it was not usual to print the Marine Mutiny Bill previous to its being read a second time and considered in Committee. Any objection which the hon. Member might have to the Bill could be brought forward in Committee if he would now assent to its being read a second time.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  assured the hon. Gentleman that he must have made a mistake with regard to this Bill. It had passed the House of Lords, but had never as yet been the subject of discussion in the House of Commons. It simply abolished the privilege which some persons now possessed of taking documents out of the Registry House—a privilege the continuance of which was deemed inadvisable; but it did not propose the appointment of any new officials, or provide for the pensioning of any members of the existing staff.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that an engagement had been entered into not to press the Motion after half-past twelve. The hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), who was in his place, would, he presumed, object to its being proceeded with, in which case he would fix it for to-morrow.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX , as an Amendment, moved to substitute the name of Mr. Vance for Sir John Gray, on the ground that the North of Ireland was not sufficiently represented on the Committee.
 THE O'CONOR DON  opposed the enlargement of the Committee to nineteen Members, believing that it was already inconveniently large. He had selected the names of the Committee with great care, and they had met the approval of the noble Earl the Chief Secretary for Ireland and the Members for the County of Dublin.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, it was the factious opposition of hon. Gentlemen opposite which had prevented the right hon. Gentleman bringing forward the Scotch and Irish Reform Bills. On this occasion, however, the hon. Member had been justly rewarded by seeing the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) postponed, it being now later than half-past twelve, after which time the right hon. Member had said that he would not propose its third reading.
 THE O'CONOR DON  then moved the adjournment of the House.
 MAJOR WALKER , in allusion to the deficiency of officers in the Militia force, quoted from a Return stating the deficiency in this respect in various ranks. It appeared that the deficiencies in the rank of lieutenant were 756, and in the rank of ensign and second lieutenant 1,219. With
 69 70
 MR. KINNAIRD  thought the House was entitled to some explanation of the Bill, which had been often proposed in previous Sessions and as often successfully resisted. He believed that it was now sought, by a great addition to the expenses of the country, in the shape of a wholesale pensioning of existing officials, to carry a measure which was regarded as unnecessary by the majority of his countrymen.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that this was probably the last opportunity which the Scotch Members would have of learning from the Government whether they intended to go into Committee upon the Bill before Easter. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, in his Irish Reform Bill, departed from one of his cardinal principles—that of no disfranchisement; and it would save the Scotch
 100
 MAJOR ANSON  cordially concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for
 95
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Baronet, Whether he could state to the Committee the exact number of arms which had been converted up to the present date; and, also, what the cost of each of the boys to whom the right hon. Baronet alluded was to be?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he desired to express the pleasure he felt at the statement of his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War—that his object was to introduce unity of action into the administrative Departments of the army. He concurred, too, in what had been said in favour of Sir Henry Storks and General Balfour; but, whatever the satisfaction at what his right hon. Friend had been doing to improve the administration of the army, he confessed that with reference to the other part of his statement—that bearing on the amount of our force—he did not think that our present position or the proposed changes could be looked on with any great satisfaction. His right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War proposed a change with reference to the Reserves; but even his right hon. and gallant Friend (General Feel) who proposed the change last year did not seem to understand in what manner the change was to be carried out. The House had, however, to deal with this broad fact—that the Army Estimates were increasing, steadily increasing. His right hon. and gallant Friend had just accounted for some part of the increase; but we had this increase in the Votes without any great available increase in the number of men. The Estimates amount to £13,500,000, and after this enormous expenditure the utmost force we could put in line for the defence of the country—he spoke, of course, of regular troops—was 40,000. He ventured to say that this was a result wholly disproportionate to that enormous expenditure; and he believed that the country would not go on paying such sums without a more satisfactory result. He had placed on the paper a Motion for to-morrow evening, with the object of obtaining a Commission on an Army of Reserve. The Recruiting Commission did not go into that question. That had been distinctly stated in "another place" by a noble Lord who was a Member of the Commission, and who stated that the Commissioners had not touched on that branch of the subject, because it was too vast a one. He should postpone his Motion till after Easter, when he proposed to bring under the notice of the Mouse the question of military organization, and the means we possessed, under
 68
 MR. O'REILLY  said, there was one subject to which he had called attention for several years, when the fact was indeed denied—namely, how very inefficient the recruiting system was, and how far we were below the establishment at the end of each year. It was satisfactory, however, to find that the recommendations of the Royal Commission on this subject had been well and efficiently carried out by the Department. They had been successful in a double degree, providing a large increase and a superior supply of first recruits—an increase of from 5,000 to 7,000. They had given not only a large supply of re-enlisted men, but enabled them to take or reject whom they pleased. The reengagements last year were 26,000; the number we might have re-engaged had not been mentioned, but it must have been
 74 75
 MR. AYRTON  said, he understood the Secretary of State for War to say that it was contemplated to put both the Militia and the Volunteers under generals of districts. [Sir JOHN PAKINGTON made a gesture of dissent.] He was anxious that the right hon. Baronet should explain whether he proposed to retain the great principle of the civil administration of the army—the principle that everything connected with the expenditure of public money—everything, in short, unconnected with the discipline of the troops and the use of arms, should remain in the hands of civil administrators. He could well understand how a contrary principle might find favour in the eyes of military men; but he trusted that, before introducing any change in this respect, the right hon. Baronet would submit his proposal in a distinct form, so that the House might express an opinion upon what, in his opinion, would tend to withdraw the expenditure of public money from the control of the representatives of the British taxpayers.
 MR. BARCLAY  said, that having resided two years in the Mauritius, he was able to affirm that the reduction of the garrison to 1,000 men would be most pleasing to the colonists, and would be a most acceptable relief to them. Personally, he thought the reduction might be made with safety, if the health of the remaining regiment were promoted by removing it from the town of Port Louis to a site already selected in a district of the island that was more salubrious. When privateers issued from the Mauritius, the island was self-supporting; but now, owing to the great cultivation of sugar, and increased population, the inhabitants depended for their subsistence upon the importation of rice from India; and, therefore the possession of the island depended entirely on maritime supremacy. The insalubrity of the island had been greatly exaggerated. A British regiment might be kept there with safety, and alone, or with a Sikh regiment, it would be sufficient for defence.
 MR. DISRAELI : That is my present intention.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I do not know that it is quite regular that I should give the required information to the House; but I apprehend that it is for their convenience that I should do so, and, with their indulgence, I will do so at once. I require no time at all to consider the course which we ought to take; and I need not tell the House that where Notices of this character are given by one's opponents, one's natural feeling is to meet them as soon as we are permitted by the state of the Public Business and other considerations respecting the convenience of the House. I have no hesitation in saying that the state of Public Business, as is well known to the House, is not very satisfactory at present; but I will take the House into counsel. I feel that with their assistance we might be able to do all that is necessary and yet meet the wishes and convenience of the right hon. Gentleman. It is of primary importance that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War should take a Vote for men to-night. If the House will grant them he will be able to bring in the Mutiny Bill, and then there would be fair time, without interfering with the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, to carry it through; and Gentlemen who wished to enter into any discussion upon the Mutiny Bill would have a fair opportunity when it goes into Committee. I hope, therefore, that the House will give my right hon. Friend the Vote to-night; and in that case I think I shall be able to make a fair and reasonable arrangement with the right hon. Gentleman. The day
 34 35
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he desired
 40
 MR. NEWDEGATE  objected to the Bill being pressed, as it had only been delivered that morning.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  objected to the principle of putting off opposition to measures until they got into Committee. It was part of the vicious system of which he had before complained. He also objected to the Bill being read a second time until Members had been furnished with copies of it.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Resolution passed by the Justices assembled at the last Michaelmas Quarter Sessions of the county of Berks has been taken into consideration, according to promise, by the Secretary of State for War, as follows:—
 "Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Court that it is unjust that Military prisoners be sent to Reading Gaol as long as there is room for them in the Military prisons of the country;" 39
 MR. PUGH  said, he hoped a fair trial would be given to the experiment of amalgamating the Militia with the Volunteers. He thought that many of the grievances of the two forces would be done away by that judicious step. There should be no jealousy whatever between them. The Militia were drawn from the same classes as the army, which had done so much for the glory of the country. The Volunteers were drawn from the middle classes, who
 73
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that an important question had been raised—the employment of British troops in our distant colonial possessions, which absorbed 50,000 men. It was satisfactory that, since the Report of the Committee of 1862, continuous and considerable progress had been made in giving effect to the policy which the House meant to pursue on this subject. He had heard with pleasure the
 94
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, the hon. Member, who had just addressed the House, had brought forward a number of grievances upon which hon. Members were accustomed to descant, but they might be easily disposed of. The expense of the army was to be in a great measure accounted for by the high price of wages in England; the comparatively small number of men retained in this country was owing to the large numbers drafted for service abroad; the disasters, which had happened in reference to the supply of the army when on active service, were chiefly owing to the failure of contractors to fulfil their contracts; while the reason why the purchase system had been retained was that the country would not sufficiently pay those officers who retired, worn out. Taking the statement of the right hon. Baronet as a whole, he thought it impossible not to be gratified with it. The right hon.
 72
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether a large increase has not been made to the Duty on Spirit Licenses in Ireland; and, if so, by what authority, and under what Act of Parliament?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the Excise License Act required that the Duty should be charged according to the rent or annual value of the house. Great complaints having been made by applicants for new licenses, that they were charged on a higher basis than the holders of old licenses, inquiry was made, and it was found that publicans and spirit grocers of old standing had not in many cases been charged additional Duty from time to time in proportion to the increased value of property. The Commissioners of Inland Revenue accordingly gave orders that from October last all holders of licenses should be assessed on what was known as Griffiths' valuation, with an addition of one-fourth. Complaints of over-assessment were in consequence made, amounting to 587, but in 342 cases the new assessment had been confirmed; in thirty-six cases it had been reduced; and in 209 it had been still further increased—the rents actually paid having been found to exceed the new valuation.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that a Vote for these items was taken in the Estimates last year. An account comprising those and other items of the previous year's expenditure was appended to the Estimate of last year for the purpose of showing the  data
 MR. H. E. SURTEES  said, he was not sure whether the hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway) wished that the troops should be removed from the West Indies, or merely
 98
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had to congratulate the right hon. Baronet on the very lucid statement in which he had brought these Estimates under the consideration of the House. The explanations which the right hon. Baronet had made had been none the more easy from the fact that the right hon. Baronet had to show that an apparent expenditure of about £15,500,000 represented a real outlay of less than £14,000,000. But there were some points involved in that statement on which he (Mr. Childers) was anxious to take that opportunity of making a few observations. He, like his right hon. Friend, noticed in the form of the Estimates some changes which, although about to be considered by them, had not been approved by the Committee on Public Accounts, and which, undoubtedly, tended to swell the Estimates. He would not, however, discuss this question of extra receipts, as it would come before the Committee to which he belonged. But the Secretary of State had suggested more questionable changes. His right hon. Friend had referred to the fact that all the transport expenditure was borne on the Navy Votes, and all the cost of the guns for the navy on the Army Votes; and had told them that he should like to see the cost of the army transports inserted in the Army Estimates, and the cost of guns for the navy in the Navy Estimates. Now, it seemed to him (Mr. Childers) that it would be very difficult to carry out that arrangement. The rule should be that the Department which had the spending of the money ought to be accountable for it on the lace of the Estimates. If the military Departments had the manufacturing establishments under their charge, then, however much of the out-turn of those establishments went to the navy, it was impossible that the navy could be properly made accountable for them. If again the transport department were under the control of the military authorities, then it ought to come under the military Votes; but as long as the charge of the transport service rested on the Admiralty, its cost should not be placed in the Army Estimates. The cost of the transport service was not all comprised in Vote 17 of the Navy Estimates; but included the charge for men, provisions, and items in several other Votes, and,
 78 79
 MR. CHILDERS  was not at all disputing the fitness of the two gallant officers selected, but desirous of pointing out to his right hon. Friend that unless the greatest caution was observed the effect produced might be to minimize that civil control to which the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had referred; and one of two things would probably happen—either the entire management of the army would be thrown into military hands, the Secretary of State being practically powerless, or they would have two military Departments acting as rivals to each other, and creating an infinitely worse dualism and anarchy than was produced by the antagonism between a civil and a military administration. He would next take the question of audit. For an efficient check on expenditure three things were necessary. First, they ought to have the means of knowing what expenditure was really going on; next, they wanted a proper controlling authority; and, thirdly, they required to have a Department engaged in auditing the expenditure which had been incurred, to ensure that the accounts were correct, both as to authority and as to voucher. It was important that there should be no confusion between these several distinct branches of financial administration. The right hon. Baronet had spoken of a prompt audit; but the whole theory of audit rested on the hypothesis that the auditor should not be hurried, and should not feel that he was obliged to exercise
 80 81
 MR. WYLD  said, he would wish to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the conduct of the Ordnance Survey, which was very unsatisfactory. There was great difficulty in obtaining copies of the surveys, and the object of the heads of the Department appeared to be chiefly to amuse themselves with photographic pursuits. He thought the people of Scotland had the greatest possible reason to complain of the manner in which their interests had been neglected, and the backward state of the survey as regarded that country.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he should be glad to receive from his right hon. Friend some explanation with respect to the boys whom he proposed to introduce into the army. His right hon. Friend said he thought the boys educated at Chelsea might be advantageously employed in the
 76
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to know, Whether his hon. Friend the Member for Chichester would, after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, propose the appointment of the Select Committee on this Bill, notice of which stood on the Paper for that evening?
 MR. VANCE  moved the addition of the names of Mr. Agar-Ellis and Captain Archdall to the Committee of seventeen already nominated upon the above question. He did so on the ground that Ulster had not been properly represented on it.
 MR. VANCE  hoped, that one of the names, at all events, he proposed would be assented to by the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. VANCE  said, he would not put the House to the trouble of another division; but would postpone his Motion until to-morrow.
 MR. AYTOUN  wished to know, whether all the troops at home had been supplied with Snider rifles; whether they had been furnished to our troops in India and the colonies; and, whether it was intended to place them in the hands of our native troops in India and of our Volunteers? He understood that already about 300,000 weapons had been converted—enough, it might be thought, to arm the whole of our regular force. With respect to the Volunteers, the right hon. Baronet appeared to argue that, because the number of efficient riflemen was increasing, the Capitation Grant ought to receive no addition. He denied the justness of the inference. It was a fact that, owing to the smallness of the Grant, the selection of
 77
 MR. WHITBREAD  said he would beg to recall the attention of the Committee to the question of the supply of men for the army. The right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) was to be congratulated on the success of his measures for supplying recruits and securing the services of the time-expired men. Not to detract from the measure; but in order to dispel any idea that they had already done sufficient, he must remind the Committee that the scheme came into operation at a favourable time. The years 1866–7 and 1867–8, in which the greatest number of men might have claimed discharge, were also years in which employment out of the army had been extremely scarce; and, consequently, there had been more men willing to enter the army and fewer desirous of leaving it. This was an clement that must not be omitted from the calculation. It was a moot point whether it was right or wrong to continue the services of the time-expired men; and the right hon. Baronet had hit the nail upon the head when he said that the Government should be in a position to accept or not, as they chose, the services of such men. The right hon. Baronet said he thought the number of men reengaging was a sufficient answer to the attacks made on the way in which the soldiers were treated. All he (Mr. Whitbread) had ever said, on this point, was that the measures formerly adopted had the effect of checking the disposition of men to re-enlist; and no man felt greater satisfaction than himself at the successful results of the improvements which had been made in the condition of our soldiers. With regard to the proposed system of training recruits for the army, he admitted that a fatal mistake had been made by the Committee, of which he had the honour to be a Member, in using the phrase "training boys." Those whom the Committee wished to train would be like the boys who enter the naval service. The boys of the navy were young men of nearly seventeen years of age when they entered the service. The Committee contemplated taking these
 82
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether it is true that a seaman on board the  Favourite 36
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he held in his hand two copies of the Bill.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  moved, that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If he has any objection to explain to the House—seeing that the Government last Session obtained a Vote (Class 5, Vote 20) for expenses of Garter King at Arms and Viscount Sydney, in investing the King of the Belgians with the Order of the Garter, £1,020 11 s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. d. "Chiefly due to the expenses of Mr. Rassam's Mission to Abyssinia, and of investing the Kings of Belgium, Portugal, and Denmark, and the Grand Duke of Hesse, with the Order of the Garter?"
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he considered that civilians had a right to indulge in military criticism on the ground that they paid the Estimates, which were in creasing year by year, so much so that one branch of the defensive service cost as much now as both did in the time of the Duke of Wellington, and, in fact, our army was the most expensive in the world. He would not begrudge the expense if we had a satisfactory army; but it appeared there
 71
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he would not at that hour attempt to follow in detail the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Otway) through his various statements; but would merely remark that every friend and foe of the army were agreed that the expenditure was too much, and would be exceedingly glad to see it reduced. The hon. Member said we had the smallest standing army of any nation that professed to keep one, and the hon. Gentleman now proposed to increase its efficiency by reducing it by 2,758 men. The hon. Gentleman had enlarged upon the intricacies of the double command, and, in fact, had entered into the question of the re-organization of the War Department — a matter which was
 90 employés 91
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  expressed the pleasure with which he had heard the announcement that 30,000 of the Militia force were to be brigaded with the Regular army, the result of which would, he hoped, be advantageous to both branches of the service. It was a serious consideration that there were only 40,000 men of the Regular army disposable in these islands, for the defence of the country in case of invasion, while the enormous sum of £13,000,000 or £14,000,000 was expended on the Army Estimates. There was one thing which he should like to see decided upon in the army—namely, a shorter time of service. He thought that four or five years was a sufficiently long time in which to make a good infantry soldier; and he should like to see some such length of time fixed upon for the duration of military service. By this means a more intelligent class of men would be obtained as recruits. He believed that if men could become soldiers for four or five years only, there would be hardly a family in the country who would not like to have one of its members in the army. He wanted to see more military training for the whole population introduced into our schools. He would suggest that in each of the schools which were under the Privy Council there should be some sort of military training afforded, by the engagement of a sergeant from the army to drill the boys. With regard to the Reserved force, it was not a satisfactory state of things that the Staff should be drawn from the Line, and he should like to see the Volunteer force and the Militia supplied with a Staff of their own.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he must express his thanks and his satisfaction at the general tone of the remarks with which his Statement had been received. In reference to some observations made by the noble Marquess the Member for North Lancashire (the Marquess of Hartington), he begged to assure the noble Marquess that when he stated that no guns were provided for the fortifications earlier than last year he had no intention to impute blame to the late Government. Indeed, he agreed with the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) that, considering the progress which had been made in the manufacture of artillery, it was fortunate that a large expenditure had not been previously incurred in furnishing guns for the fortifications. In reply to the question which had been asked as to the intentions of the Government with regard to the two branches of the new Army of Reserve, as proposed by the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon last year, he observed that he thought he had made it clear that he fully intended to adopt the plan proposed by that right hon. Gentleman of forming an Army of Reserve out of the Line by giving an increased amount of bounty to the Militia, and raising the Militia to a full quota. He had also intended to say that the scheme contemplated leaving it open to soldiers to commute the latter part of their service in the Line for a certain amount of service in the Army of Reserve. He did not anticipate that any large number of men would be derived in that way; but in order to carry out the plan it was necessary that regulations should be drawn up, which, after General Lindsay was consulted with respect to them, would be laid on the table of the House. Surprise had been expressed that so few small arms had been converted. He had to state that it was intended to convert 160,000 in the course of the year. The conversion would cost 3 s. 96 97
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  explained, that what he had said was, that the recommendations of Lord Strathnairn's Committee was that the system of control should be commenced under an officer of high rank.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that with reference to the Question of the hon. and gallant Member for Dungannon (Colonel Stuart Knox), at present he had no intention of proposing any change with regard to quartermasters' pensions in Ireland. He was not able at that moment to reply to the Question of the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) as to the number of arms that had been converted. With inference to the supply of trained boys, he was sanguine enough to believe that he should be able to procure them without great expense.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was sure he should not ask in vain for the
 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 s., s. 49 50 "Since I assumed command of the northern district, and have become aware of the large number of irregular troops, Yeomanry, Militia, and Volunteers, which it contains, it has seemed to me very desirable that some plan should be devised for making them more readily available than they now are in case of emergency. … The numbers approximately of the troops in question in the northern district are as follows:—Yeomanry, 8,000; Militia, 25,000; Volunteers,
 51 52 53 54 55 "The theory of the present arrangement is that each local head of a Department is in direct communication with the general officer commanding; but it would obviously work far better, and produce fir more unity of action, both in peace and in war, if the general officer commanding communicated with one head only, who was acquainted with the organization of the several Departments, and accustomed to control them. For these reasons, both on account of economy in peace and efficiency in war, it appears to Lord De Grey to be necessary that the several administrative Departments should be brought to a focus, both locally and in this office." "I am anxious to state to the Committee that we have been for some time convinced that the charges of some of those establishments are no doubt greater than they ought to be; but the only way by which a more economical system can be introduced is to bring them more directly under the control of one head. The Committee will understand that the head of a Department, such as the commissariat, or the purveyor's Department, at any particular station, although he is subordinate to the General Officer, corresponds upon matters connected with the Department with the head of his Department at home. The General Officer at the station has many other important and arduous duties to perform, and consequently is not able to exercise any very minute supervision. This is not all; under the present circumstances it is necessary that each station should have an officer, or several officers, of considerable rank. We have, therefore, made a proposal that a superior class of officers should be appointed at each station, to be called comptrollers, or by some similar name, who shall be placed at the head of the administrative Departments. Each comptroller will be subordinate to the General Officer, and responsible to him for the proper and efficient administration of the Departments; and it will be his duty to advise the Secretary of State upon the organization of each Department, and to point out where economy can be exercised."—[3  Hansard, 56 "That a Department should be organized to be responsible for, and to control, the working of all Departments of supply—namely, 1st, commissariat, including store accountants for provisions, forage, fuel, and light, military accountants and treasurers; 2nd, purveyors; 3rd, military store, as regards clothing and stores generally, but not arms, ammunition, or warlike stores, herein subsequently defined: 4th, barrack, as regards fuel and light and straw, at home as well as abroad, and in camp; and also as regards cash and barrack and miscellaneous stores, now administered by barrack-masters; 5th, army transport." "Setting aside considerations of economy to be effected by the abolition of the superior officers of the different branches, it is difficult to over-rate the advantages which it may be calculated will arise from the united action and harmony which will be produced by making the several supply Departments of the army ace under one impulse, and subordinate to one chief." "The practical result of these and other recommendations in the same sense will be that the Secretary of State for War at home, and general officers commanding abroad, will have to deal, in all matters relative to the administration of the army, with one responsible department—that of control—instead of, as at present, with five separate departments. General officers commanding will be relieved of the details, duty, and correspondence connected with the supply Departments of the army, as they at present exist; affording them more time for consideration of purely military and strategical duties of command; and both Minister for War and general officers will be able to intrust greater powers, and give move confidence, to an officer in the position of controller than they can under the present system to the several heads of Departments, each naturally anxious to secure the utmost advantage and influence for his own Department." 57 58 59 60
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, the rule of the Army was that soldiers sentenced to imprisonment only were confined in the Military prisons, but when the sentence was imprisonment and dismissal from the army at the end of the term, offenders in those cases were always sent to the county gaols. With respect to the amount paid for their maintenance, it was settled by the Act of 1863. It was not in his power to authorize any departure from those rules.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had hoped to have received the Official Despatches from the Mauritius that morning;
 38
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  said, that from his own knowledge and experience he should strongly deprecate the transfer from the navy to a military department of the transport of troops. In time of war it would be impossible to secure troops a proper safeguard during passage unless the arrangements were in the hands of the officer in charge of the naval force on the station. He was glad that notice had been taken of the remarks made about military agents; for it would be unjust to let it go forth that the very respectable firms and gentlemen who acted as agents for the different regiments did nothing for the £48,000 except carry on a traffic in commissions. They had responsible duties, and discharged them efficiently, and, although that might be done by a public Department, as it had been proposed they should, it had generally been considered that it was more economical to leave them to the agents. With regard to the force in the Mauritius, it was one thing to have it reduced by sickness in time of peace, and another to reduce it permanently by one half. The French had much the same garrison at Bourbon that we had at the Mauritius, which island was assailable at two points, where it could be defended by 2,000 men. There were only two
 93
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Baronet the Member for Gateshead, If he will delay any further proceeding with the Bill for the revision of Railways till after Easter?
 SIR WILLIAM HUTT  was understood to say, that he was anxious to proceed with the Bill as rapidly as possible, but he was in the hands of the House.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  replied, that the information which the hon. Gentleman desired to have would probably be found in two Papers which he had just laid on the table of the House, and which would be distributed to Members on Thursday. The first was a supplement to the Appendix to Vote 6 in the Estimates. This supplement would show the class and tonnage of each ship, and the estimate cost of labour and material to be expended during the year. The second was a general summary, showing the intended appropriation of Vote 6, distinguishing the sums to be expended in building and re-fitting of ships, and that for the wear and tear and maintenance of the fleet for the year 1868–9.
 MR. M. T. BASS  said, he could not understand why one trade should pay a licence while others did not—why a soapboiler and a papermaker should pay a licence and a calico maker should not; why a banker should pay and a merchant should be exempt; why a horse-dealer should pay and a cow-keeper be exempt. The hon. and learned Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman) annually brought forward the grievance of attorneys and their certificates or licences; but the attorneys were by no means singular in this respect. He wished the hon. and learned Gentleman were present that he might challenge him to a discussion of this whole question. Either licencing was good or bad; if good, it should be made general, and if bad, it should be abolished. In America, a vast
 156 s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d. 157
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that he thought the hon. Member for Salisbury (Mr. Marsh) had exercised a wise discretion in not calling for a division on the question he had introduced. However important it might be to discuss the principles on which a remission of taxation should be made, it was obvious that such discussions could not have any practical effect in the face of a progressive increase in every branch of the public expenditure. It was on their success in restricting expenditure that they must chiefly depend for the remission of taxation; because, if they continued to increase the expenditure rapidly, it was quite in vain to make the most enlightened speeches on the subject of the reduction of taxes. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was quite correct in stating that the subject of licencing was a very difficult one to deal with; and, indeed, so great were those difficulties, and so anomalous our licencing laws, that every attempt which he (Mr. Gladstone) had hitherto made to reduce them to something like order and principle had failed; and he had always been obliged to desist from bringing forward any propositions on the subject in a practical shape. When the hon. Member called
 158 159
 MR. BRUCE  thought the House should feel much obliged to the noble Lord for his careful statement; he had touched upon many topics worthy of consideration, but his own opinion regarding the defects and shortcomings of our educational system was that the remedy would be found in measures of extreme simplicity. The simple fact was that our elementary schools were insufficient in number and quality, and that the want of good elementary schools, especially those of a supplementary kind, formed the real obstacle to the success of science schools. The remedy would be found in the improvement of our elementary schools, and the establishment of what the Commissioners had recommended—namely, schools which should take up the education of pupils after they had
 181
 MR. BRUCE  explained, that he had merely quoted Mr. Arnold's comparison of Zurich with Leicester in the matter of wealth and population.
 MR. HENLEY  remarked that of all the strange things which had happened during the last two or three years nothing was more strange than the sudden discovery which some persons appeared to have made of what they called the extreme ignorance of our working classes, and more especially of our artizan class. The strange statements he had come across during the last few months had caused him the greatest surprise. Not three years ago a sort of general triumph was going on in the country over the singular progress of our people, and we were called on to rejoice in the marvellous growth of intelligence observable in the working man. This progress was so great that the wealth of the nation had been doubled in twenty years; and what had produced this; The skill of those very men whom it had been the pleasure of some persons during the last year or two to call all manner of names, in some cases hardly respectful. That increase of wealth which had been pointed to with so much pride had been created by those very men who, in his humble judgment, had not received their fair share of it. He might be right or wrong; but he thought it remarkable that they had heard nothing of this extraordinary ignorance both of masters and men, for the masters were not spared by many persons, until a kind of stoppage came in the great race of prosperity which we were running. As a looker-on he had read in the papers reports by those who had been about the Continent collecting information on the subject, and in every such report it came out, as if in a postscript, that those highly-educated and technically-educated workmen abroad always worked longer hours for less money than their ignorant English competitors. Whether it was desired to reduce English workmen to long hours and short pay he did not know; but that, as far as he had read, was the state of things on the Continent under the system so much commended. One gentleman of the name of Mundella, who gave an account of what he had seen
 183 184
 COLONEL HOGG , as a member of the Metropolitan Board of Works, could tell the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Watkin) that, unless this Bill was passed, it would be impossible, from want of funds, to make the approaches to the Thames Embankment. It would also be impossible to complete the improvements in Park Lane, or to finish the Chelsea Embankment; and he might add that the latter work was necessary for the completion of the low level sewer.
 COLONEL, W. STUART  complained of the injustice of taxing rural districts for metropolitan improvements, simply because the coals they consumed passed through London.
 CONONEL HOGG  opposed the Amendment.
 COLONEL HOGG  remarked, that as the evidence given before the Committee showed, in spite of the taxation complained of, the profits on the London shipbuilding trade at the time admitted of one of the witnesses making extensions which would cost £100,000—a fact which justly excited comment on the part of the Committee. He opposed the proviso on the ground that the tax was absolutely necessary to meet engagements entered into. The noble Lord had given every possible care and attention to the affairs of the metropolis, and all persons connected with it ought to be grateful to him.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire would not go on with the Bill. ["Oh, oh!"] He thought reasonable time ought to be given to consider the Bill as it now stood. The Amendments have been put in by instalments, and time ought to be given to consider them. ["Oh!"]
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, If he has any objection to lay Copies of Papers upon the Table of the House showing the present position of the question of a Contract Law for India; and of all Reports of the Indian Law Commissioners on the subject of Contracts?
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  remarked that the Bill had no Preamble. To supply the deficiency, he moved the adoption of the Preamble of the previous Continuance Act.
 MR. COWPER  denied that the town of Hertford was mentioned in any Acts of Parliament relating to this subject.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that the proposal made by the Chairman of Ways and Means had received due consideration at the hands of the Committee on Standing Orders. It was thought that it would meet with opposition from a great many Members who had made up their minds on the subject, while many others would not agree to it without further inquiry. The Committee accordingly recommended that the proposal should not be entertained for the present; and not only did he concur in this opinion, but, though he had heard ten times as much on the subject as he had ever expected to hear, he had seen no reason to alter his opinion. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with the discussion which had taken place, and would at all events postpone the matter.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it would be very difficult to adopt the proposition of the hon. Member for Middlesex, as it would interfere with the boundaries which had been fixed by competent authority.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  remarked, that the opposition to the measure did not proceed from the representatives of the constituencies who would have to pay the duty; but from Gentlemen who represented constituencies in a remote part of the kingdom. The hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Candlish) had clearly explained the object of his opposition, when he stated that he spoke in the interests of his constituents; but in reality the hon. Gentleman was not correct in saying that the interests of his constituents would be in any way prejudiced by the Bill, for the coal duty, as it now existed, did not operate as a bar to the export of coal from Newcastle and Sunderland. The quantity of coal exported thence into the metropolis was annually on the increase. In 1863, the imports into London amounted to 5,127,000 tons; in 1864, to 5,476,000 tons: in 1865, to 5,909,000 tons; and in 1866, to 6,029,000 tons. The hon. Gentleman wondered that the metropolis did not find some local object of taxation in order to carry out local improvements as other towns did; but surely the hon. Gentleman could not be ignorant of the fact that a number of other large towns—such as Dublin and Brighton—had recourse to this very mode of levying funds for local purposes. When the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Pease) objected to the tax as interfering with the consumption of coals, he ought not to overlook the fact that Newcastle itself placed an export duty of 2 d. 199
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  observed, that the right hon. Member had given statistics to show Zurich's efficiency in educational establishments; he had said nothing regarding Leicestershire's, and his remarks, unless contradicted, would lead the public to imagine some frightful contrast existed between the state of education in Leicestershire and Zurich. ["No!"] Now, he should state that, as far as he was aware,
 182
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House to have drawn an unfavourable contrast between the state of education in the county of Leicester and in the canton of Zurich. But he (Lord John Manners) did not think it was fair to pick out the county of Leicester for the purpose of that comparison.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  had been assured by the highest authority that a
 206
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that to include the bridges within the metropolitan area would be a departure from the principle upon which they were asked to agree to the clause. He trusted that the hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Alderman Salomons) would withdraw his Amendment.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that it being felt as a grievance by those who lived in the district outside the Metropolitan Board's area, but who were, nevertheless, subject to the Coal and Wine
 205 "That the several Coal and Wine Duties by this Act continued for the year ending the fifth day of July, one thousand eight hundred and eighty nine, shall be applied in the first instance in freeing from toll the following Bridges on the Thames: viz., Kew, Kingston upon Thames, Hampton Court, Walton upon Thames, and Staines; and next in making free from toll Chingford Bridge and Tottenham Mills Bridge upon the River Lee; and should there be any surplus remaining the same shall be applied as Parliament may hereafter direct."
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  regretted that he could not assent to that Amendment. The Committee having sanctioned the continuance of those dues for the limited period of seven years, on the assumption that they would be levied on all classes of consumers within the prescribed radius, it was now impossible to exempt a large class of consumers from their operation. If such an exemption were allowed, it would be necessary to impose those dues for an additional number of years. If there was a class of persons who ought to contribute their fair share of the funds required for cleansing and embanking the Thames, improving the thoroughfares, and all the other great works to which the coal dues were applicable, it was the manufacturers, who by the nature of their business did so much to obstruct those thoroughfares and pollute the river.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  was not at all disposed to dispute the position of the hon. Member for Banbury, with whose arguments he agreed in the main, and with whose general conclusions he concurred; and yet he ventured to differ from him upon a very few points. On the other hand, there was a great deal of truth in what had fallen from the hon. Members for Manchester and for Carlisle. He believed that competition was in a great measure the cause of the present cry for technical education. The hon. Member for Banbury said that during the French war our industries had been firmly established in this country; but that since 1815 foreign countries had been able to make great progress in their manufactures, and in a large degree to supplant those of this country; and that the cause had been their technical schools. There were, however, other reasons which could be assigned for the fact that foreign nations were catching us up in the race. Not thirty years ago there were but few manufactures on the Continent, and but few railways throughout Europe to distribute the produce; whereas at the present time the Continental nations had as many manufactures as we had, and their countries were intersected with railways, by means of which their productions were taken to foreign markets easily and cheaply, to compete with our own. To these circumstances it was due that we were beginning to feel the pinch of competition; our difficulties were not solely to be attributed to our want of technical education. He could, however, not agree with the hon. Members for Manchester and Carlisle in altogether making light of the case of the hon. Member for Banbury. Several deputations had had interviews with him lately on the subject of our manufactures, and had mentioned facts which had startled him much. He had learnt from them that a very few years ago no person abroad could compete with us in the manufacture of woollen goods, whereas at the present time upwards of £5,000,000 worth of wool was annually sent abroad to be dyed and worked up, instead of being manufactured in this country. He had been informed by Mr. Behren the chairman of the Chamber of Commerce at Bradford, that in the year 1864 upwards of £33,500,000 worth of woollen
 171 The Times 172 173 174 175 176 "The upward movement is visible, above all, among the English. The whole world has been struck with the progress which they have made, since the last Exhibition, in design. … It is impossible to ignore the fact that a serious struggle awaits France from this quarter." "The progress made in sculpture by England has been immense since the Exhibition of 1851. She has made a gigantic advance." 177 fons et origo mali. 178 s. s. d. "It is better to annex the school to the workshop, than the workshop to a school." "The  Real Schulen 179 "The apprenticeship schools themselves which I visited, with the exception of the one at Crefeld, drag on a languid existence, and the opinion is almost universal in Germany that for all trades, except those whose conditions approach to that of an art, as the designing and weaving of complicated patterns, and others of a similar kind, the true apprenticeship is in the workshop or factory." 180
 MR. AYRTON  said, that, in 1861, he presided over a Committee which investigated the subject of hackney carriages. The tax on these was originally a local tax, for the repair of roads in the metropolis; but it was found so profitable that it was transferred into the national Exchequer. There it had ever since remained. After the Committee reported deputations waited right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire), who intimated that it was desirable to re-consider the whole of the taxes on locomotion. The present Prime Minister, when addressing the House on the question of finance, recognized that principle, and stated that as soon as the state of the finances of the country permitted, he would consider the matter with a view to the abrogation of the present system. He was sorry that his hon. Friend had not contented himself with urging these general views; and that he should, instead of insisting upon the total remission of these taxes, have anticipated the functions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and proposed a sort of equinal Budget. It would be a great misfortune if the Government should undertake to re-adjust these taxes on the scheme which had been suggested, instead of applying themselves to their total remission. Instead of being able to repeal taxes on horses and carriages in this country, we were driving mules and carriages in Abyssinia. He was afraid it was hopeless to ask the Government to pursue the settled policy of the House, and to re-consider the whole of the taxes on locomotion. However, at present he should oppose going into Committee on the subject.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that in the Select Committee which had been referred to, he made a proposal against the continuance of this tax; but the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works proposed an Amendment, and that Amendment was
 201 pari passú.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the chief objection to the insertion of the words was that the Mayor and Corporation of London had no power whatever over these duties, which were paid into the Treasury. The last time the House passed this Bill the town of Hertford, which was under the patronage of the then Prime Minister, was exempted from its operation. He did not know whether the county of Bucks was under the patronage of the present Prime Minister. Perhaps it would be better to exempt from the operation of the Act the coal used in all manufactories.
 MR. AYRTON  said, as the Amendment had been withdrawn, he should move the addition to Clause 2 of the following words:—
 "For every ton of Coals consumed for any purpose of manufacture in any factory separate from any dwelling house, there shall be allowed to the consumer of such Coals a drawback of one shilling a ton, provided such consumer shall comply with such regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by the said mayor, aldermen, and commons, and approved by one of Her Majesty's Secretaries of State, to ascertain the amount of such drawback, and to prevent any abuse therein." s. d.
 MR. AYRTON  thought that his right hon. Friend was mistaken in supposing that the proviso would not take effect at once, and, in case he was not mistaken, he would alter his proviso to the extent that it should take effect from and after the day on which the Bill may pass.
 MR. AYRTON  moved a clause providing for the audit of the accounts.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had already touched upon this question, and had said he thought it would
 195 s. d. s. d.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I understood the Question addressed to me by the hon. and learned Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) to be, Whether the instructions to the Assistant Boundary Commissioners who visited the Borough of Portsmouth will be laid upon the table of the House: In answer to that, I said there was no difference between the instructions given to the Assistant Boundary Commissioners for the Borough of Portsmouth and those given to the other Assistant Commissioners, which are upon the table of the House. And I also said what is invariably the case, that the Reports of Assistant Boundary Commissioners are confidential documents, for the use of the
 147
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, with respect to the instructions given to the Assistant Boundary Commissioners for the Borough of Portsmouth, it is unnecessary for me to produce them, because they are already lying on the table. With regard to the Reports of the Assistant Boundary Commissioners, they are essentially confidential documents, supplied for the information of the Boundary Commissioners, who form their opinion upon them, and who are responsible for the opinion they give to this House. It is, therefore, quite out of the question to produce these Reports.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have listened with great attention and interest to the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Salisbury (Mr. Marsh), and I am glad to find from his concluding remarks that he does not intend to divide the House upon his Motion; because if he had done so I should have opposed it, as no one in my position could assent to a Motion which would, at the present time, strike off so large an amount of the Revenue without proposing a substitute. The question is one of great importance, and I must remind him and the House that the licences to which he has referred come under different categories. These licences were first imposed upon those who sold exciseable or dutiable articles; and though the duties on many of those articles have been relaxed the
 154 155
 MR. SAMUELSON , in rising to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the provisions for giving instruction in theoretical and applied Science to the Industrial Classes, said, that in the Notice which he had given he had been careful to avoid the use of the term technical education, and for this reason: technical education was of two kinds—that of the school and that of the factory. Now, it could not be denied that the instruction received by artizans in our factories was at least equal, if not superior, to the instruction received in the factories of any other nation in the world. Our manufactures had long carried off the palm among the industrial productions of nations; our manufactures had been renowned at a time when the Continent had even the rudiments of good workmanship to learn. But it should be remembered how very recent was our present great industrial system. It dated from the inventions of Watt, of Arkwright, and of Crompton; and to show how entirely it was of modern creation, he would simply mention that the manufacture of iron in this country had increased from 60,000 tons in 1788 to 5,000,000 tons in 1867, or very nearly a hundred-fold. Whilst this great industrial edifice was being created, European countries were suffering from exhausting wars. It should be remembered that until within a comparatively recent period the exportation of machinery from this country was prohibited; while, until the middle of the reign of George IV., it was an offence punishable, he believed, with death, to entice any artizan to go abroad for the purpose of teaching his trade to foreign workmen, Meanwhile, schools were established
 161 les Ecoles des arts et des metiers Ecole centrale 162 coleur de rose, 163 164 165
 MR. SAMUELSON , in replying, said, he was glad the noble Lord had acceded to the inquiry he had proposed. With regard to the introduction of workshops into schools, which the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bazley) had supposed that he favoured, he had never contemplated any such plan, which was being gradually abandoned in the Continental schools. As to Grants for middle-class education, he had not proposed the introduction of the system, as the noble Lord appeared to think, for, in point of fact, such Grants were already made in several cases—as, for instance, to the School of; Chemistry and the School of Mines, and a contribution towards the endowment of a chair of engineering had been promised to Edinburgh; but he regarded it as a proper subject for inquiry whether grants of this kind should be continued or increased. As to extended hours of labour, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) in deprecating that system, believing that such labour was in the end the most expensive.
 MR. BAGNALL  mentioned, as an instance of the want of education among skilled workmen, the fact that, some years ago, he required a manager for a very large and important iron works, and was obliged to give the appointment to a man who could neither read nor write. That occurred some eleven years ago, and he believed the difficulty in procuring educated workmen had scarcely lessened tip to the present day. He hoped the noble Lord
 169
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as the Motion for the third reading had been made after one o'clock in the morning, and as great exertions had been made to collect the party opposite while there were but few on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, he would make no further opposition. He would only say that the Bill would destroy the parochial system of the Church of England.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was his intention to move the adjournment of the House. ["Oh!"] The hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed the House had not said a word as to the purport of the Bill as it now stood. He (Mr. Newdegate) could show that the Bill as it now stood virtually infringed the parochial system of the country. He begged to move the Adjournment of the House.
 MR. SCHREIBER , remarking that it was not desirable that the House should adjourn until the Mutiny Bill had been introduced, moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : Sir, I scarcely understood the Answer given by the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury with respect to the Assistant Boundary Commissioners' Reports. Does he mean it to be understood that there are secret Reports made by the Assistant Commissioners of Boundaries differing from those laid on the Table of the House, and that their Reports are not to be laid upon the Table?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  proposed, that in the event of any arrangements being proposed for freeing toll-bridges by means of the Coal and Wine Duties, the Creek Bridge at Deptford should be included.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that rather than have his Amendment rejected he would withdraw it.
 MR. E. POTTER , as one well acquainted with calico printing, admitted, that in the higher class of goods the French excelled us in design and colour; but said that, although we imposed no duty, the importation of French prints had increased very slowly, and only amounted to £500,000 a year. Under our system of Free Trade it was impossible we could compete with them in the supply of their description of goods, as the manual labour required in their preparation cost 40 per cent less in France than in this country. He should be the last to oppose inquiry; but they should very carefully guard against any attempt to make grants for education to those who were very well able to pay for it themselves. Though schools of art had been in existence in this country for many years, the subscriptions for their support from manufacturers in all the great manufacturing towns did not exceed a total of £2,000 or £3,000 a year. If our employers of labour did not come forward as they ought to do to provide this education, it was not the duty of the Government to supply their deficiencies. The total number of artizans taught in the schools did net exceed 7,000 or 8,000. A great deal had been said about the Continental system of education; but what were its results? In France the cost per head was nearly double that in this country, and there was very irregular attendance, after all, in the schools, while the technical education which the students received had not enabled them to strike out any new path of practical industry. He hoped if the Committee were appointed its Members would be carefully selected, and that its investigations would be strictly confined to certain definite subjects connected with the progress of our own manufactures. The hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon) stated that our manufactures were losing ground; but how did he reconcile that allegation with the fact that our exports and imports had doubled during the last twelve years, and that, notwithstanding the unfavourable circumstance that our manufactures were liable to a heavy duty at
 170
 MR. GREENE  complained that the brewer was unable to recoup himself for his licence by raising the retail price of a pint of beer by an impossible fraction of a penny, and therefore the whole sum came out of his pocket. He could not see why the brewer should be taxed while the cotton manufacturer got off free. He did not object to the brewer paying a licence; but he said that the licence in lieu of hop duty was unfair in the extreme. The hon. Member for Salisbury (Mr. Marsh) proposed that the duty should be raised upon the beer, instead of upon the malt; but experience had shown them that the restrictions imposed upon the brewer by such a practice were such as it was impossible they could now submit to; and, moreover, this was not the proper time to propose the reduction of the malt tax now we were at war with Abyssinia. His object in rising was to express his regret that, when practical questions came before the House, there should be so thin an attendance of Members; whereas, if the hon. Member for Birmingham, or any other hon. Member, brought forward a sentimental grievance from the other side of the water to be discussed a large number of Members were invariably present. He hoped that the Motion of the hon. Member for Salisbury would be brought forward on some future occasion, and that a Committee would then be appointed to consider the whole question of trade licences.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  moved for leave to introduce a Bill to settle and describe the Limits of certain Boroughs and the Divisions of certain Counties in England and Wales, in so far as respects the Election of Members to serve in Parliament. He said it was not necessary for him to make any statement, as there had been a Parliamentary Commission, and the Bill would be introduced in the shape in which the Commission had reported to the House; and he therefore simply moved for leave to bring in the Bill.
 MR. DIXON  said, he sincerely hoped that the graining of the Committee would not be a bar to giving the assistance immediately and urgently required by some of the provincial towns, and which would be asked for by others. He hoped that the result of the inquiry would be practical legislation, and a disposition on the part of the Government to grant the supplies necessary to carry out the recommendations of the Committee. They could not hide from themselves the fact that this was a question of no small importance; because it was beginning to be fully recognized that, upon the right method of dealing with this question depended, to a considerable extent, the continuance of the manufacturing prosperity they had hitherto so largely enjoyed. We did not now occupy the same position in regard to manufactures as we had occupied ten or twenty years ago. He referred to our position as compared with that of other countries. The letters written by jurors at the Paris Exhibition showed that we had not kept pace with Continental nations. This was the opinion of Chambers of Commerce, which ought to be able to; arrive at a correct conclusion on the matter; and Sir James Kay-Shuttleworth held that in our middle-class education there had been scarcely any advance during the last thirty years. He hoped that the Committee, if appointed, would inquire, not only into the provisions now existing respecting technical education; but would also inquire into the provisions that ought to exist, and which it should be the duty of the House to bring into existence. The Science and Art Department, in its last Report, informed them that in all the schools connected with the Department, there were not more than 7,000 pupils under certificated teachers—or not more than one pupil, in a scientific school, out of every 4,300 inhabitants. To the science and art school in one small town the Government of Saxony allowed £3,000 per annum; while £7,000 a year was the aggregate allowed by our Government to the provincial schools of science
 166
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, what the House really had to consider was this—the House having sanctioned certain Bills for certain improvements, how were those improvements to be paid for? He was not going
 200 d.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the boon was given distinctly as a compensation for those bridges beyond the metropolitan area, the inhabitants of those districts receiving no advantage from the tolls.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he should be reluctant to throw difficulties in the way of the manufacturers; and, if the case were perfectly free, he should be inclined to vote for the Amendment; but they were in reality discussing what was to happen sixteen years hence. He regretted that their taxation should have reached such a point that they were obliged to begin to pledge the revenues that would only accrue sixteen years hence. For his part he would rather say let them get rid of the matter as soon as they could. He thought it would be better to leave the tax as it was than to begin and establish differences which could not begin until sixteen years from the present day. The difficulty would arise of deciding what was a manufacture at the interval of sixteen years, and he therefore thought it would be best to allow the matter to stand as it is.
 MR. LEEMAN , from his experience of Private Bill legislation, was opposed to the alteration of the Standing Order in the manner now proposed. During the existence of the Standing Order in question, hundreds of millions of pounds sterling had been invested in public works in this country. The hon. Gentleman himself had admitted that fully one-half of the opposition in Committee-rooms was based
 142 143
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to make a few remarks on the subject of one licence, especially as it seemed to be supposed that the burden fell upon the consumer. He referred to the licence upon those unfortunate victims of taxation, the brewers. That licence was entirely paid by the brewers themselves; and what did it amount to? A London brewer who made 100,000 barrels of beer per annum, would require a capital of about £300,000.
 153 s.,
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, if the clause was to include bridges within the metropolitan area, the dues would have to be continued for a much longer time.
 MR. LABOUCHERE , while regarding this as an excessively bad mode of raising money, thought it better that the funds should be raised even from this source that that the improvements now in progress
 198
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved, to add words to allow the Corporation of London to give a drawback for the coal duty to certain manufacturers carrying on business within half a mile of the county of Bucks. He explained that it was intended that this power should have reference to certain papermakers, whose places of business were just within the line of taxation, and who had to compete with other papermakers whose places were just on the other side of the line.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he had no objection to the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to ask, Whether it is the intention of the Admiralty, previous to the discussion on
 148
 MR. CANDLISH  moved that the House go into Committee on the Bill that day six months: firstly, in deference to a sense of duty to his constituents; and secondly, because he regarded the Bill as essentially bad in itself. The Bill did not propose to impose a duty upon coals brought into London; that existed already; but it proposed to hypothecate the coal duties for seven years, from 1882 to 1889, and so withdraw them from the control of Parliament for twenty-one years. The duties were obstructive to trade, and particularly to the coal trade of the Newcastle district. He was surprised that the Bill was not opposed by metropolitan Members; for the coal duties were a tax upon one of the first necessities of human life to the amount of 1s. 7 d. 197 octroi
 MR. DODSON  said, that having gone into this subject very fully not long ago, it was not his intention to trouble the House at any length on the present occasion. His object was to elicit as far as he could arguments from hon. Gentlemen with regard to the difficult question of the allowance of opposition to Private Bills on the ground of competition. The Standing Order 131 was capable of two different constructions. It might be taken to mean that the proprietors of existing works might be admitted before Committees to argue that the proposed new works were not required for the public advantage; or, without denying that the works were for the public advantage, that they might be allowed to oppose the construction of the new works on the ground that those works would interfere with their private interests. The Report of Mr. Cardwell's Committee on Railway and Canal Bills in 1853, upon which the Order was based, merely recommended that in contested cases careful arrangements should be made by which established railway companies and municipal or other public bodies
 140 141
 MR. LOCKE  observed, that although the name of Hertford was not expressly mentioned in any of these Acts, alterations had been made in the boundaries of the district affected by the Act, which had had the effect of excluding Hertford from its operation.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that what the manufacturers complained of was that, while they paid as high rates and taxes as the rest of the community as ordinary householders, they were subjected to a heavy extra tax on the trade they carried on. The Thames iron shipbuilders naturally had to pay more for their coals than their rivals on the Clyde, and yet an additional impost of 13 d.
 MR. SAMUDA  also pointed out the onerous character of the tax as affecting the struggling iron shipbuilders of East London, who had lately been called upon to pay rates, not on their buildings alone, as formerly was the case, but also on their plant. Within the last seventeen years fifteen of the shipbuilding firms of the metropolis had failed in their business, or discontinued building, and these firms had during their existence employed 4,000 persons; which really meant that they had provided the means of support to about 20,000 individuals. It was now vitally important that the trade should not be too heavily loaded with taxation. He
 204
 MR. SAMUDA  seconded the Motion. He believed the tax was much more injurious now than when it was first proposed. At first, London was the only district for manufactured goods; but now they met with competition all over the Continent. In France, for instance, all the materials for shipbuilding were free; and coals were actually cheaper in France than in London, though this country supplied coal to all parts of the world. At this moment, the French manufacturers were paying 1 s. d. post obit.
 MR. MARSH  called the attention of the House to the subject of those licences which restrict the trade and commerce of the country, with a view to their abolition, and, in case of a financial necessity, a transfer of the charges to make or sell any article to a direct tax on the article itself; and moved that, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable that all Licences injuriously affecting the industry and commerce of the Country should be abolished. He said that he should endeavour to show that there was no defence for maintaining these licences; that the amount paid was collected in an expensive manner; that they checked the industry and commerce of the country; that they pressed more on some trades than on others, and on some classes of the community more than on others, and especially upon the humbler classes; that they produced, to a certain extent, monopoly and higher prices, and, in some cases, prevented articles from being used. Another objection was that the taxes so imposed were collected by three separate Departments—the Excise, Stamps, and Assessed Tax Offices; and certainly if they were to be continued it would be better that they should all be placed under the control of one Department. The licence to make soap, which was £4 4 s. s. 149 s., s. s. s. d. d. d. s. d s. s. s. s. d. d. 150 d., d. d., d. d. d. s. s. d. s., s. 151 152 s. s. d. d. d. s.
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, the right hon. Gentleman must well know
 207
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, What instructions were given to the Assistant Boundary Commissioners for the Borough of Portsmouth, and whether he has any objection to lay them upon the Table of the House, and also their Report to the Boundary Commissioners, recommending for Parliamentary Elections the annexation of the town of Gosport to the borough of Portsmouth, contrary to the wishes of both?
 MR. ACLAND , after pointing out that farmers were the only class who had prosecuted technical education for the lust twenty years, remarked, that the farmer and the manufacturing implement maker, the engineers and the manufacturers very well understood their own business—namely, how to make money; but he was convinced that the time had arrived when merely the art of money making would not enable this country to hold its position. In addition to capital and skill it had become necessary to diffuse amongst their workmen a sound scientific knowledge. He was of opinion that next to a good general education a knowledge of mathematics lay at the foundation of the manufacturing prosperity of this country. In three Registrar General's divisions lying on the coal field from Bristol to the north of Yorkshire there were 7,000,000 inhabitants, and instead of there being, according to calculations which had been made, about 70,000 boys in the public schools of that district learning mathematics, there were only 2,098, while the entire number learning natural science, such as it was, was only 1,009, The hon. Member for Leeds
 186
 MR. T. T. PAGET  merely rose to say that the right hon. Member for Merthyr (Mr. Bruce), in the remarks he made, did not convey to his mind the idea that he
 185
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, that in proposing a large reduction in these taxes on locomotion, and that a great change should be made in the mode of charging, and in the manner of collecting these duties, he was aware that he was considered by some to be infringing to a certain extent upon the prerogative of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, doubts having been expressed whether any Member who was not a Minister of the Crown was competent to move such a Resolution. He could assure the House, however, that he should confine his Motion within Parliamentary rules and regulations. The taxes to which his Motion referred were levied most unfairly and unequally; were collected at great expense to the Revenue, and involved a considerable loss of time, labour, and money to the parties whom they affected; and acted as restrictions opposed to the first principles of Free Trade, being alike injurious to the trader and the public. The House, and possibly the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, might be surprised to hear that these taxes were levied in five distinct ways, formed rive distinct items of account in the statement of the public Revenue, and, more extraordinary still, were paid on thirty different occasions in each year, some at one place and some at another. For instance, if the same person were the proprietor of an omnibus, a cab, and a brougham, let for hire in London, he would have to pay five distinct duties, and to make the payments in two separate places in the metropolis at thirty different times every year. The only wonder was that the system had lasted so long, and that the business of locomotion continued to be subjected to such exceptional imposts. The stage coach and omnibus mileage duty was levied at a uniform rate of a farthing per mile throughout England, Wales, and Scotland, and in the metropolis the duty was paid monthly at Somerset House. The amount of duty was the same whether the omnibus was drawn by one horse and carried eight passengers, or was drawn by two horses and carried twenty-five passengers, or was drawn by three or four horses and carried thirty-five or forty
 188 s. 189 s. s. s. 190 s. d. s. 191 s. s. 192 d. 193 194
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he was not surprised at the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets dissenting from any scheme he had not himself proposed. If the country was to wait for the time when the Government was prepared to remit the whole tax, he believed they would have to wait a very long time indeed. The Home Secretary was preparing a Bill to regulate the hackney carriages of the metropolis, and he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that it would be impossible to impose further restrictions upon the proprietors unless this enormous taxation were reduced. He would leave
 196
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, the licencing system was one of those subjects that would very early engage the attention of the new Reformed Parliament. The poor in the agricultural districts had gained less by the great reductions that had taken place in the duties of all articles of consumption than any other class in the kingdom, from the fact that the retailers in the small villages had not made a corresponding reduction in the price of those articles of necessity and comfort so largely consumed by the poor. The traders retained a monopoly of the trade, because others were deterred from embarking in business on account of the heavy licences they would have, or thought they would have, to pay. A labouring man with £1 1 s. s. s.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that if relief from these taxes were delayed until our finances were in the favourable condition desired we might wait a long time. He thought the thanks of the House were due to his hon. Friend for having called attention to this question, which pressed very unequally and unjustly upon cabmen and omnibus keepers.
 MR. BAINES  said, he considered it was very desirable that the Government should grant the Committee asked for. If a Committee were appointed, it should be composed of men of science, practical manufacturers, and men connected with public and political life; and the inquiry might be more efficient if it were carried on by a Royal Commission, because the services of men of science would be more at the command of a Commission than of a Select Committee; but if the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council thought that the inquiry ought to be referred to a Committee, he should make no objection. He must do the Government the justice to say that the Department of Science and Art had been by no means idle in the matter of technical education; nor had their efforts been unattended with good. It was only eight years since the Government Grant was first given, and the number of scholars had increased from 500 in 1860 to 10,000 in the course of the present year. He believed, however, comparatively little had been done out-of-doors to provide the education which was suited to persons intended as managers for large manufacturies. Still, he might say, if science had been neglected by the humbler classes of the community, it had been neglected in a still greater degree by the upper and middle classes. In the middle-class schools the great defect was found to be the want of scientific education; and he believed the fact was in a great degree attributable to the Universities, where, until recently, science was not made an especial study. The University of London, and other kindred institutions, had given a great stimulus to the study of science; and, although they might be disposed to look with favour upon what had been accomplished, they were forced to admit that
 167
 MR. WATKIN  concurred in the suggestion of the noble Lord.
 MR. WATKIN  trusted the House was not to be considered as a mere vestry meeting in the City of London; for the question affected not merely the metropolis, but the production of minerals all over the country, and also manufactures within the district of the metropolis itself. The tax was not going to expire until 1882. Surely, under the circumstances, this measure might be left for the consideration of a Parliament elected by household suffrage. Had the small consumers who suffered most from the existence of the tax met together to say that this was a desirable form of taxation? In the country the people said that in consequence of this tax, which they called a tax upon production, trade was being abolished. He thought the noble Lord (Lord John Manners) might very well postpone this Bill, as there were several years to consider it. He hoped the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Candlish) would not be intimidated, but go to a division upon his Amendment.
 MR. WATKIN  supported the Amendment, and asked for statistics as to the proportion which the amount of coal tax collected from the manufacturers bore to the total proceeds of the impost.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought the two bridges at Battersea should be included.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  remarked, that according to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the licences of hawkers were needed for the protection of shopkeepers. But this was an argument that could scarcely be recognized in these days of free trade. Hawkers were amenable to the criminal law of the country; and if
 160
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of Stale for India, Whether the opinions of any Members of the Council of India on the subject of the Government connection with the Bank of Bombay have been placed on record, as provided for in the twenty-third section of "The Government of India Act;" and, if so, whether he will lay such opinions upon the Table of the House, with any other explanatory Papers which may have been addressed to him on the same subject, and in addition to the Correspondence that has been already furnished to the House?
 MR. PEASE  declared that the tax was opposed to the interests of the coal-producing districts, because the increase of price was a great bar to their industry. The collieries in the North were working four or five days a week, and were they to be exposed to a further detriment by means of this tax? It was a tax of 8 or 9 per cent on the shipbuilding in the River Thames, and when the industry of the Thames was crippled it was a fit time to call the attention of the House to this tax. It was a grievous tax on the poor of the metropolis, and injuriously affected the districts around the metropolis which derived no benefit from the City improvements. He opposed the Bill.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied, that there was only one Minute of a Member of the Council of India that had been recorded under the provisions of the twenty-third section of the Act. There were several other memoranda and papers of a more or less formal character; but inasmuch as the Minute referred to the personal character of individuals and matters that were about to form the subject of an official inquiry, he considered it would not be convenient or proper to produce it.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that he had no objection to lay copies of the Papers in question on the table of the House.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he was certainly not one of those who thought that a railway company should be able to prevent the formation of another railway, merely on the ground of interference with profits. Parliament gave compulsory powers over land in return for restrictions imposed; but it did not guarantee monopoly, as the hon. Member for York appeared to suppose, and therefore such a provision as that in the Railways Construction Facilities Act, which enabled an existing company absolutely to stop  in limine 144 145 locus standi
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he would ask the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan) to postpone the second reading; partly, because the Bill had not been distributed, though he believed it was in the Bill Office; and partly, because clauses requiring a communication to be made between the guards and passengers of railway trains had been introduced in a Bill brought into the other House by his noble Friend the President of the Board of Trade. It would be more convenient to wait until that measure came down to them, and then the House would see whether the principle for which the hon. Member had so long contended had been sufficiently carried out in the Government Bill.
 MR. BAZLEY  wished to state, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Banbury (Mr. Samuelson) on the subject of London-made watches, that the watch he held in his hand had kept time with a variation of only two minutes during the last ten months.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he did not despair of the capabilities of his countrymen, who, he believed, would still be found unrivalled in the race of the world's competition; and with regard to education he bought that the first duty which that House had to perform was to provide primary instruction for the great masses of the people. His hon. Friend had omitted to mention the great advantage which a man's genius gave to his labour. There were many persons in this country who were continually undergoing a system of self-education, not being much indebted to school education, and to that class the manufacturers of this country owed more than to those who were deeply skilled in science and art. He took a more cheerful view of the result of the Paris Exhibition than was entertained by his hon. Friend. According to the Report of an engineer artizan (Mr. Evans), published under the sanction of the Society, it appeared that in the engineering department of the Paris Exhibition there was nothing to surpass British workmanship for finish and soundness; and that for exactness and perfection of design nothing could exceed the tools of Messrs. Whitworth and Co. In like manner, it was stated in the work published by that society upon the Paris Exhibition that in the watch trade the English, taking quality into consideration, had really nothing to fear. From Coventry two individuals were sent to the Paris Exhibition, and the report drawn up by one of them stated that for the mauufacture of good, plain ribands Coventry had no reason to be apprehensive of rivalry. Speaking generally, he thought that, instead of asking the Government to patronize the British workman, he should himself forego his invocations to Jupiter and put his shoulder to the wheel. The cotton trade was originated by self-teaching and self-help. Within his own recollection Mr. Heathcoat, formerly Member for Tiverton, commenced the lace trade in this country: he had no scientific teaching, but
 168
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether, as a Conditional Order has been granted by the Court of Queen's Bench to quash a Presentment of the Kerry Grand Jury, enabling Mr. Crosbie of Ardfert to
 209
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he hoped
 210
 THE O'CONOR DON  agreed with the noble Earl in thinking, that while the Select Committee was sitting it would not be expedient to go on with the present Bill; but he suggested that the Bill might be read a second time on the understanding that it would not be pressed further on at present. If, as the noble Earl had stated, the landlord in reality paid the cess ultimately, that fact would constitute a strong argument in favour of the Bill, as the landlord could suffer no wrong in being required to pay directly what he at present paid indirectly.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  hoped the hon. Member in charge of the Bill would agree to the suggestion of the noble Earl, and postpone the second reading. He was not prepared altogether to oppose a measure of the kind; but he thought that the present time, when a Select Committee was taking into consideration the whole question of the Grand Jury laws, was inopportune for the discussion of the Bill.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  thought it most proper that the whole subject should be discussed and maturely considered by the Committee upstairs; but it would be contrary to the practice of the House, and not very courteous to the Committee, to sanction the principle of a Bill by reading it a second time, and thus endeavour to dictate to them the mode in which the question should be settled. The Committee had full powers to inquire into the whole subject; and he trusted the House would not fetter them by the reference proposed by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Murphy). Although he could not admit the grievance alleged by the hon. and learned Member for Mallow (Mr. Sullivan), he did not deny that some changes in the present system might be desirable. Exemptions similar to those made in the case of poor rates would, no doubt, be beneficial; but he had represented for thirty years a large agricultural population in Ireland, of all classes and creeds, and had never heard of this long standing grievance which pressed for immediate legislation. He looked to the Committee for useful suggestions, and hoped that beneficial legislation would follow.
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  said, that last year he had opposed a similar Bill upon its second reading; but, that having received little encouragement in that opposition, he had not considered it his duty to pursue a similar course in this Session. His objections, however, remained the same, and he thought that the momentous consequences which such a measure involved were not sufficiently understood by hon. Members. The hon. Member for Roscommon (the O'Conor Don) had not made out a case for it. If it passed in its present form, it would immediately effect a most disastrous blow upon the system of united education in Ireland. It would add very considerably to the burdens of local taxation; and almost all the grand juries of the northern counties of Ireland had protested against it. It had been urged that the grand juries would be left to take advantage of its provisions or not, as they chose; but there was no knowing how soon, if it were passed at all, application would be made to Parliament to make it compulsory. It was beyond the functions of grand juries to have the power of establishing schools out of the county rates, and he desired to record his protest against the measure, believing that it was wholly uncalled for; that it would add greatly to the burden of local taxation; that it would destroy the principle of self reliance among the lower order of the people; and that it would give perpetual opportunities for increasing religious rancour and acerbity.
 THE O'CONOR DON  expressed his? surprise at the opposition from certain hon. Members opposite, to a Bill which was simply intended to extend the provisions of the Act which had operated so effectively; in England. He had received a vast number of letters from magistrates, heads of reformatories, and other gentlemen in Ireland, all expressing their highest approval of the measure, and the necessity of such an act for the sister country. At present many children were sent into reformatories who ought to be sent to industrial schools. The judicial statistics of Ireland proved that the proportion of children of this class was far greater in Ireland than in England. In respect to the petition presented by the hon. Member opposite from Armagh, he (The O'Conor Don) had received a letter from Mr. Hancock, a member of the grand jury of Armagh, in which he stated that, after the grand jury had finished their criminal business, and whilst they were assembled together with closed doors, a gentleman proposed that they should sign the petition he produced against the Bill. Mr. Hancock objected to being
 219
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, the cause of much of the opposition which had been offered to the Bill was the utter silence observed by the hon. Member for Roscommon as to the necessity of the measure and his reasons for introducing it. As a representative of a large county, he (Lord Claud Hamilton) had always felt it his duty to oppose any scheme involving taxation, the provisions of which had not been made thoroughly known to the country, and in respect to which an opportunity had not been afforded of opposing it, if disapproved, by any portion of the people. After the statement he had beard, and the explanation given in respect of its provisions, be should not feel it his duty to offer it the same opposition as before. The hon. Gentleman had omitted to state that this Bill was different from the Bill of last year. Only two individuals signed a petition against the measure. Since that time it had become a little more known, and had become the subject of eleven petitions,
 220
 MR. VERNER  said, that in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Roscommon relative to the grand jury of Armagh, he begged to state that a copy of the Bill had been sent by request to the grand jury, and every member of it had full opportunity of reading its provisions.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  wished to say one or two words in regard to the Bill. He did not propose, on the part of the Government, to take any action in respect of the Bill; but he wished to express his own individual opinions on the merits of the measure. He confessed he did not think that the hon. Member for Roscommon had made out a very strong case for extending the principles of the English Act to Ireland. He (the Earl of Mayo) had endeavoured during the last Recess to inform himself as to the feeling of the people of Ireland upon the subject; and, from all the inquiries he had made, it appeared to him that if this Bill were passed it was not likely it would have any extensive operation; but there was a very great difficulty in refusing to consider the provisions of a Bill which was almost precisely similar to the statute now in force
 221
 THE EARL OF MAYO  moved the rejection of the first paragraph of the clause—namely, that which related to vagrant children—on the ground that a distinction between reformatories and industrial schools should be maintained. The industrial schools should be for those only who had committed no legal offence; and children guilty of acts of vagrancy should be sent to reformatories instead of industrial schools. By his Bill all children who were guilty of an offence punishable by law were to come under the provisions of the Reformatory Act, the effect of which would be that vagrant children in Ireland would be treated in the same way as in England, and after suffering a short period of imprisonment would be sent to reformatories. Persons in Ireland who took an interest in the subject wished to have the distinction between reformatories and industrial schools maintained.
 THE O'CONOR DON  could not agree to the Amendment; because he did not think it right that such children, who might perhaps be sent out to beg by their parents, should be deprived of the advantages of these schools, and subjected to the contaminating influence of a prison.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that his intentions had been misunderstood by the hon. Gentleman. His object was simply to extend the operation of the Reformatories Act in a direction in which the friends of those institutions thought it ought to be extended. As reformatories were working well, he thought the class to which he had referred ought to be sent to them. To secure the best possible results from the industrial schools it was desirable to separate those children who were properly the objects of charity from those who might more fairly be regarded as belonging to the criminal class. He had no objection to the House considering and deciding upon the question whether this particular class of children should be sent direct to a reformatory, or through the medium of a gaol.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 THE O'CONOR DON  had no objection to the addition to the clause.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, anything that could improve the industrial training of workhouses would be most desirable; but he was afraid there was no machinery in the workhouses to carry on industrial training.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, if this clause were not passed the Bill might as well be abandoned.
 MR. HENLEY  said, there was a large charity to be dealt with. It was admitted that great inconveniences had arisen from its existing condition. In consequence of the state in which it was represented to be, Commissioners were sent to the spot to inquire, and upon their Report, which contained much valuable information, the Charity Commissioners framed schemes,—not, however, in strict accordance with the Report of the Commissioners who had made the inquiry—and submitted to Parliament a Bill to carry them out. The Bill was referred to a Committee, of which he had the honour of being a Member. It so happened that all the parties interested, without exception, were opposed to the scheme of the Commissioners. Those who were rich enough appeared by counsel; those who were not rich enough were allowed to appear and state their own case. It happened that one of the pensioners had been formerly a Member of this House. What had the Committee to do? They had to sit a few hours every day to devote to a consideration of what was just and liberal. The House had received that day a definition of what liberality, or rather Liberalism, really was according to the view of a Liberal Member. They were told upon that authority that it was a Liberal thing to do away with everything that a founder had in view when he made a specific bequest, and to substitute something entirely different. The hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) said the intentions of the testator should be disregarded, and that the revenues of the charity should be applied to general educational purposes. But the Legislature had come to the conclusion with regard to endowed schools that, if the words of the bequest were precise, the advantages of the endowment were to be confined to persons of that particular form of religion which the testator indicated. The same principle should be applied in the present case. It was quite clear that the testator had done all in his power to secure his charity for members of the Church of England; and another circumstance was that if nothing were done there would be a Chancery suit to settle the different interests. The Committee shrunk from ordering a sale of the estate; and from doing
 234
 MR. BRUCE  said, that, while he agreed in the desirability of removing existing inconveniences, he could not but think that the Bill could not be considered apart from the general principle which applied to endowments. The Legislature had committed certain duties to the Charity Commissioners, who were empowered to devise schemes for improving and promoting the efficiency of charitable institutions; and it was intended that such schemes, if they were approved of, should be submitted to the Legislature by some Member of the Government. It was the practice, in the first instance, to place them before the Vice President of the Committee of Council, whose duty it was, if he saw anything objectionable in them, to refer the measures back to the Commissioners for further consideration. In the present case no such objection was made to the Bill as prepared by the Commissioners last year; bin when it came back from the Committee it was
 235
 THE O'CONOR DON  objected to increasing the numbers of the Committee.
 VISCOUNT CRANBORNE  certainly had understood the hon. Gentleman to say that he felt no individual preference for those who belonged to the same religious body as himself; but was glad to find that he had misconceived what was actually stated. The hon. Member, however, must admit that he had now advocated the conversion of this endowment to purposes of primary education—purposes which were wholly foreign to those which the testator had in view.
 VISCOUNT CRANBORNE  said, the hon. Gentleman had attempted to give this Bill a thoroughly party aspect, and had started some theories on the subject of endowment, which were almost as novel to Members of his own party as they were to those who sat upon the Ministerial Benches. He really failed to gather what were those "liberal provisions" which the Committee had so wickedly struck out. He found that widows and daughters had given way to decayed and necessitated gentlemen, and that the restriction to British subjects had been omitted. Was it part of the creed of the Liberal party that the widows and orphans of pensioners should share in the endowments? Had the Liberal party any objection to "decayed and necessitous gentlemen?" He was also puzzled by the statements which he had heard as to the party composition of the Committee; for, as it happened, the two Liberal Members
 231
 VISCOUNT CRANBORNE : Well, then, it was at half-past one.
 MR. O'REILLY  believed that the Amendment of the noble Lord would bring these children into the criminal class, a class whose future life was a source of so much difficulty to the country. He trusted, therefore, that the noble Earl would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE , in moving the second reading of this Bill, thought it right to offer a brief explanation of its provisions and some account of the charity itself. He observed, by the way, that he specially appeared on behalf of Christ's and Caius Colleges, Cambridge, peculiarly benefited as they were by the institution; and that the Bill which he had brought in was substantially the one of last year, originally introduced by his noble Friend the Vice President of the Committee of Council (Lord Robert Montagu), and then amended by a Select Committee. The founder of the institution was a certain Mr. Tancred, a Yorkshire squire of strong prejudices, one of which was an objection to heirs female. Early in the last century, this gentleman executed a trust deed, settling the largest portion of his property (of which the principal seat was at Wixley some dozen miles from York), on a trust which would, no doubt, had he had issue male, have made an entail for ever; but which, as the case was, created a charity, speaking roughly, divided into two parts—one an almshouse situated in the town of Wixley for twelve decayed bachelor gentlemen, and the other an establishment of twelve studentships—four for law, to be taken at Lincoln's Inn and the residue at two Colleges of renown at Cambridge, at either of which it was a privilege to enter; four for divinity at Christ's College; and four for medicine at Gonville and Caius College. Several years later Mr. Tancred executed a will, leaving his remaining property in augmentation of the settlement. Still a bachelor, he died a few years afterwards, and his will became the subject of a Chancery suit; for his sisters and their representatives naturally objected to it. The then Lord Keeper Henley pronounced a decree, in which he established the settlement with certain modifications; and in consequence of this judgment a Private Act, 3  Geo. 225 226 227 228
 MR. SCHREIBER  said: The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has certainly formed no very high opinion of the character of the late Mr. Tancred; but I did not gather from anything he said that he felt the slightest objection to fingering the money of the departed; and I must say,
 237
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the question was, how to draw a line between the two classes, who ought to be sent, irrespectively, to industrial and reformatory schools. He did not see how it could be done; and he thought the clause in the Bill of his hon. Friend was best suited to meet the circumstances under which children in Ireland were placed. It would be dangerous to depart
 223
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  objected to the way in which the Bill was introduced, no one having heard the first reading. He admitted, however, that in accordance with his wish it was printed before the second reading. Still he considered it was objectionable that, without necessity, such a Bill should be so rapidly passed through the House. When this Bill was passed the Minister might dissolve Parliament if it did not act according to his wishes; and this indecent haste took place in consequence of party contentions which properly should have no relation to it.
 MR. REARDEN : If that machinery were introduced into the workhouses it would effect a most charitable revolution.
 MR. REARDEN  said, he should vote; for the Motion for going into Committee; but he intended to move an Amendment to a certain clause of it in Committee. He thought it would be inexcusable not to make the schools self-supporting.
 MR. SULLIVAN  contended that the tenants had a serious grievance of long standing in the payment of the county cess. It was loudly and universally complained of, that the occupying tenant should pay the whole of a tax which went substantially to improve the property of the landlords. The Bill would not create discontent; for discontent in connection with this question, was of long standing. Why should it not be put on the same footing as the poor-rate? It was only reasonable and fair that the charge should be shared by the landlord. He entered his protest against the statement of the Attorney General for Ireland, and declared his belief that those who defended the present system did not understand the subject, or the feelings which existed among the tenant class of Ireland.
 COLONEL FRENCH  observed, that if the Bill were now read a second time its principles would be sanctioned. Now, the Bill, although plausible, was most delusive. So far from being beneficial, it would be highly injurious. It would unsettle the relations between landlord and tenant, and create discontent where it did not now exist. It would also throw difficulties in the way of the Select Committee on the Grand Jury Laws of Ireland.
 MR. BENTINCK  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, the hon. Member had not stated precisely the nature of the scheme recommended by the Charity Commissioners, which, although of a comprehensive character, did not go as far as he himself wished. The Charity Commissioners proposed that the Hospital should be done away with; that the pensioners should be increased from twelve to twenty-four; that women as well as men should be admitted to the benefit of the charity; that this should be thrown open to all British subjects; and that restrictions upon the religion of the pensioners should be wholly done away with. They further proposed that the allowance of the students should be increased to £100 a year each; that these should not be obliged to belong to airy particular College or Inn of Court; and, further, that the estate, consisting of 2,500 acres in Yorkshire, and possessing a considerable residential value, which non-residential trustees were incapable of fully developing, should be sold, and the proceeds invested in Consols. A Bill for carrying out the scheme of the Charity Commissioners had been brought in last Session by the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council; in doing so, however, he never told the House that he disapproved of the provisions of that scheme, but referred the Bill embodying it to a Select Committee composed of five Members chosen from his own side of the House, and but two taken from the Opposition Benches. Bearing in mind that the Liberal party had a decided majority in the House, the preponderating influence ought to have been exactly reversed. The Committee at once proceeded to cut out all the liberal parts of the Bill, and so completely altered its character that nobody could any longer recognize it. On its return to the House he had endeavoured to restore it to its original condition, and gave notice of Amendments for that purpose. The noble Lord endeavoured to force the Bill through the House; but, in order to prevent its being discussed in a thin House, he (Mr. Lefevre) had stayed up night after night till three in the morning, and eventually the Bill was dropped. But now, in the present Session, his hon. Friend the Member for Cambridge, fresh from the honours of an Election, in which he had received considerable Liberal support,
 230
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he had never, at any time, made use of any such expression.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  begged the noble Lord's pardon. He had never used the words attributed to him on any occasion at three o'clock in the morning.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he wished to add his earnest appeal to the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo) to withdraw his opposition to the second reading of this Bill; and he did so, encouraged by the fact that with the exception of his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Roscommon (Colonel French), every Member who had addressed the House, including the noble Earl himself, had expressed assent to the principles of the Bill. ["No, no!"] He (Mr. O'Beirne) repeated his statement; it was so. The only objections taken were that the whole question was now under consideration by the Committee recently appointed, who had but just commenced their sittings, and that it would be a discourtesy to that Committee if the House expressed any opinion upon one branch of a subject, the entire of which had been so referred. Another objection offered was that the second reading of the Bill would be something like pre-judging the question which had been sent to the Committee to discuss; but not a syllable of dissent from the main object of his hon. and gallant Friend's Bill was uttered. Now he (Mr. O'Beirne) believed that there was some very palpable misapprehension on the part of hon. Members who took this view. The only effect that reading this Bill a second time could possibly have, would be to express the views of the House subject to the inquiry of the Committee; and the Committee would have the fullest power to do what they pleased with the Bill, to report in favour of, or to reject it, or to embrace the principle it advocated in a new Bill. In fact, all that could follow a second reading would be the expression of opinion by the House in favour of the principles enunciated, without in the least interfering with the power given to the tribunal up
 214
 MR. BAGWELL  thought it a considerable infringement of personal liberty to take up children merely for vagrancy, and
 222
 MR. BAGWELL  said, this was a most outrageous clause, as it provided that a child who escaped from school could, at the discretion of the magistrate, be sent to prison for a period of fourteen days with or without hard labour. He would divide the Committee on this clause.
 MR. BAGWELL  moved, that at the end of the clause the following words should be added:—
 "Or, in case of there being no industrial School in the district where the child is found, the workhouse may be duly certified by the authorities as fit to receive children to be trained as in Industrial schools."
 MR. BAGWELL  said, the Select Committee had been arranged since this Bill was brought in by his hon. Friend, and therefore he did not think it would be fair to stop its progress in a peremptory manner. He would suggest that the second reading should be agreed to, upon the understanding that the Committee should be postponed till after the Report of the Select Committee.
 MR. BLAKE  expressed a hope that the Chief Secretary for Ireland would consent to the second reading, in order that the Bill, might then he referred to the Select Committee on Grand Juries, lately appointed. The principle contained in the Bill was a very important one; and if the noble Earl would not yield to the appeal made to him by so many Members, he hoped his gallant Friend would go to a division, so that those who, like himself, considered the present system an unjust and impolitic one, would have an opportunity of recording their protest against it. Hon. Members opposite had stated that when a tenant took a farm, he knew he was to pay all the Grand Jury rate, and that he got his land for less in consequence. No doubt the tenant did know he was to pay all this rate, but he never could calculate what it would amount to; and then it was pretty certain that there was little abatement in the rent in consequence of the landlord not having to contribute a portion of the tax. The anomalies connected with the levying and expenditure of county cess were remarkable. One of the great principles of the Constitution, which says there shall be no taxation without representation, was flagrantly violated. The man who paid the tax, with few exceptions had no voice whatever in appointing those who were to expend it; and, practically, he had no control over that expenditure, no matter how extravagant it might be. To speak of the associated ratepayers was absurd—they were the nominees of the Grand Jury, and even if a few of them would venture to act independently, they could be overborne by the magistrates associated
 212 213
 MR. CANDLISH  thought the addition would interfere with the working of the Poor Law system.
 MR. CANDLISH  pointed out that the Amendment of the noble Lord really broke down the distinction which existed between criminal and other children, because though, no doubt, some vagrant children in Ireland were criminal, it was not so in the majority of instances. He considered it was preferable to send these children into industrial schools, rather than reformatories with the probationary process to going through a gaol. He thought the clause ought to be maintained in its integrity.
 MR. CANDLISH , believing that the proposition of the noble Earl would overthrow the reformatory system, trusted that the Committee would retain the clause as it now stood.
 MR. DENT  had the authority of the Charity Commissioners for stating that they had never been consulted with regard to the Bill that was now before the House; and he certainly thought it a rash and
 232
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the Gentlemen composing the Select Committee would form an excellent Committee, thoroughly representing all the interests of Ireland, and there was only one Gentleman among them who had not been on the Grand Jury. He (Mr. Maguire) thought it might be useful to read the Bill a second time, and refer it to them. The right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Warren) laboured under a great misconception if he believed there was no grievance involved in the existing condition of the law. Those who were acquainted with the feelings of the people knew that a grievance did exist, and that it was felt very strongly. He had himself seen a petition, signed by 6,000 occupiers in the South of Ireland, complaining of the grievance; and if the noble Earl opposite would refer to the occupiers of his own county, he would find there were not more than ten in a thousand who would not be in favour of a division of the burden between landlord and tenant. But no improvement was ever attempted to be made in that House for Ireland without the parrot cry being raised that dissensions and divisions would be created between the landlords and tenants. That was, however, all nonsense. Hon. Members came here to improve the law. Good will, not ill feeling naturally arose from improvements. He hoped the second reading would be agreed to.
 MR. VANCE  moved that the House should go into Committee on the Bill on this day six months. There was a certain amount of plausible argument in favour of this Bill, inasmuch as its principle was one already in operation in England. The object of the measure was to extend the operation of the Industrial Schools Act to Ireland, but the circumstances of the two countries were wholly different. There was much more vagrancy in Ireland than in England. The consequences of the measure would be that vagrant children might be seized and placed in
 218
 MR. VANCE  said, he should divide the House.
 MR. VANCE  was afraid the Amendment would lead parents to send their children out to beg, in the hope that they would be instructed by the Government.
 MR. VANCE  believed the clause as it stood would give encouragement to parents to send out their children to beg.
 MR. VANCE  moved, that the Select Committee on this Bill do consist of nineteen Members, and that Colonel Stuart Knox and Captain Archdall be added to the Committee.
 MR. PIM  supported the Bill, on the ground that it would compel some parents, who would not otherwise do it, to pay a portion of the sum necessary for the maintenance of their children. He thought that the Bill was as much required in Ireland as in England.
 MR. KENDALL  thought the Bill ought not to be pressed forward without further consideration.
 MR. MURPHY  thought the magistrates ought to have a discretionary power of sending children direct to the reformatory without passing them through a prison; and did not see any objection to giving to magistrates the power which they possessed in the case of industrial schools.
 MR. MURPHY  said, it appeared to him that the principle of the Bill was not objected to, and he would therefore suggest that, after the second reading, it should be referred to the Select Committee of the hon. and gallant Member for Roscommon.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he was in favour of apportioning the county cess between landlord and tenant as was already done in the matter of poor rates. There had not been a single objection advanced against the principle of the Bill. It was true they had been told that an interference with the relations of landlord and
 216
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  considered that nothing would be more mischievous than to read this Bill a second time with a view to immediate legislation. It appeared to him that the Bill contained as much mischief as any that had been introduced for some time past. The tendency of the measure was to tell the occupying tenants that they were suffering under a grievance, for which he believed there was no foundation; the Grand Jury cess being a charge upon the land apportioned justly among all classes. More than half the land in Ireland was held under tenancies from year to year; and as the Bill proposed the immediate application of the new law to all these tenancies, the result would be to create a vast amount of discontent between landlord and tenant, and to oblige landlords in self-defence to put an end to existing contracts with their tenants. He did not acquiesce in the principle that it was desirable that the Grand Jury cess should be apportioned between landlord and tenant, but he admitted that the subject was one deserving of inquiry before a Committee. It was against the practice of the House to affirm the principle of a Bill, when that very principle was to be one of the matters referred to a Select Committee.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, in reply, he was not aware that it was the province of an hon. Member to ask Questions of the Law Officers in reference to a civil case pending before a Court of Justice, and as this was a Question of that sort he could not enter into any explanation of it. In fact, the matter to which the hon. Member's Question referred was entirely one of a private dispute. It was one in which the Attorney General had no right or power to interfere, and, as he had told the hon. Member privately yesterday, if there were any legal remedy it could be sought in the ordinary way.
 MR. ACLAND  said, that he was by no means indifferent to the propriety of respecting the general intentions of testators who aimed at forwarding great and good objects; but it was quite another thing when the House was called upon to assist in placing restrictions around institutions, and where the testators were selfish men and wanting in natural affection for their relations. This Mr. Tancred had been described by the Judge who gave a decision
 236
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  thought the discussion showed the necessity there existed for some efficient representative of the Charity Commissioners in that House. There was at that moment no Member of the Government on the Benches opposite to say a word in favour of the Report of the Charity Commissioners, or to give any explanation with regard to the Bill. It would be more satisfactory if such measures as this were introduced by the Government, instead of being left to private Members. It could not, he thought, be said that the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) factiously opposed the Bill. What the hon. Member asked was, that action should not be taken in the matter until the Charity Commissioners
 233
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  joined in requesting his hon. Friend not to press the second reading at present. In Ireland there were many tenants-at-will who held their lands upon an understanding that their rents should not be increased; but if
 211
 MR. STACPOOLE , in rising to move the second reading of this Bill said, it was a measure which would be received in Ireland with a great deal of gratitude. Its object was to oblige Irish landlords to contribute directly to the county cess; to effect an equitable distribution of it between the landlord and the tenant; and to give the occupiers some control over the expenditure, by fuller representation of the cess payers at the presentment sessions. At present all the cess was paid by the occupiers, and the landlords paid none of it, or only paid the cess on any tenements they held in their own hands; though the improvements effected by the expenditure of the cess in the formation of roads increased the value of their property. As Grand Juries were at present constituted, the cesspayers had really no voice in the determination of the amount of cess to be levied.
 MR. POWELL  said, he did not think that the present was the time in the history of the country when a desire to increase the comforts of old and decayed persons could be legitimately regarded as out of date. In Bradford there were collections going on in favour of various asylums devoted to the purpose. The question involved in the opposition to this Bill was, whether, when there was an endowment in favour of a religious communion, the members of that religious communion should be allowed to enjoy the property devised for their benefit. The issue at stake in this case did not affect one religion alone, but the endowments and bequests of all bodies of Christians in this country. He must adhere to the broad principle that a man could spend his money as he liked, and so leave it after his death. The Report of the Middle-class Schools Commission was in favour of this Bill, which, he trusted, would be read a second time. Any alterations which it was desirable to make in the details of the Bill could be effected in Committee, while its broad principles were preserved.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, that the Bill would not interfere with existing arrangements between landlords and tenants; for all existing contracts were specially excepted from the operation of the Bill. There could be no hope of preserving good-will between landlord and tenant—as the opponents of the measure professed to wish—if Bills founded like this on just principles were to be rejected. It was now declared that a simple act of justice would produce ill-will between landlord and tenant. What could be fairer than that the person who possessed the permanent interest in the soil should pay his portion of the burden, instead of the whole being thrown upon the shoulders of the tenant? The House was asked to read the Bill a second time; not for the purpose of immediate legislation, but that the Select Committee might have official cognizance of its provisions. There was nothing more common than to give instructions to Committees as
 215
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, he quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman that the Irish Law in regard to the matter in question was defective, and it would be a great public advantage if the same facilities for obtaining provisional orders which existed under the Local Government (England) Act were provided for Ireland. He also thought that the mode of taking the polls at municipal elections for Ireland was very defective, and ought to be remedied. It would also be a great public advantage if a more effective mode were adopted for auditing the accounts of local bodies acting under the Municipal and Towns Improvement Acts. He had given directions that the Towns Improvement Act generally should be very carefully considered, for the purpose of making some amendments in it; and he hoped shortly after Easter to lay on the Table a Towns Improvement Bill which would deal with the questions to which the hon. Gentleman had referred.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the application of Captain Warren, R.N., whose patent cooking apparatus has been adopted for use in the Army by War Office Memorandum, dated War Office, 21st August, 1867 [B/a—1741], will be referred to the "Standing Committee for the consideration of the claims of inventors to rewards," in conformity with the War Office Circular, dated 28th June, 1867 [84 Gen. Nos. 1571 and 1601]?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that he did not know whether this was quite a Question which he should be called upon to answer; but he might state shortly what he believed to be the difference of the Law in England and Ireland. In Ireland the Law did not provide for the classification
 260 "And whenever any person convicted of misdemeanour is sentenced to imprisonment without hard labour, it shall be lawful for the Court or Judge before whom such person has been tried to order, if such Court or Judge think fit, that such person shall be treated as a misdemeanant of the first division, and a misdemeanant of the first division shall not be deemed to be a criminal prisoner within the meaning of this Act."
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Treasury Minute, dated the 16th August, 1867, for the audit of the sums granted for Fortifications annually has been carried into effect; and whether the results will be laid upon the Table?
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether he intends to proceed with the Petit Juries (Ireland) Bill that night?
 MR. GLADSTONE : I think it would be convenient that the House should know the business it is intended to take this evening. There are four or five subjects
 264
 MR. GLADSTONE : I beg to ask, what is to be done with the Capital Punishment Bill? I would also take the liberty of suggesting, with reference to the Telegraph Bill, that the subject is one of such novelty, and involving a number of complex details, that it would hardly be desirable for the House to proceed with it at a very late hour.
 MR. MOFFATT , in rising to call attention to the position of Parliament in reference to the amendment of the Law of Bankruptcy, and to the expediency of introducing a Bill into the House for that purpose without delay, said, that the law as it now stood gave immense privileges to debtors, restrained greatly the rights of creditors, and vested large discretionary powers in the Judge. He ventured to say that the Law of Bankruptcy was one of the most important of laws in a commercial community like that of this country. The Bankruptcy Law was amended by Lord Westbury's Act in 1861, and in 1864 the number of bankruptcies had increased from 1,432 to 7,224, whilst the amount of assets had decreased about 50 per cent. In 1867 the number of bankruptcies had increased to 8,994. By Lord Westbury's Act it was provided that persons might become bankrupts on their own petition; and in 1864 there were of these 5,260, and in 1867 the number was 6,532, showing an increase of gentlemen who, having nothing to pay, chose to become bankrupt, of 25 per cent. In 1864 there were discharged without any punishment 5,335 bankrupts, and the number in 1867 was 6,902; but the amount collected had shrunk from £677,000 to £583,000. The number of bankrupts who had paid no dividend was no less than 5,876; and this, he submitted, could not be considered a satisfactory state of things. He indeed believed that the whole
 266 267 268
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it would be very inconvenient for him to state the principles of the measure. The House was perfectly aware that a Bill had been brought in and read a second time in the House of Lords; and, in due course, he hoped it would come before the House of Commons, when they would have the advantage of the hon. Member's knowledge of the subject in discussing the measure.
 COLONEL SYKES , though not anxious to increase the public expenditure, thought that the Volunteers ought to receive something more than they did. The majority of the men composing the Volunteer ranks were workmen receiving weekly wages averaging from £1 to 30 s. 270
 MR. OTWAY  contended that all men performing the same service should have the same rate of pay. When he had asked whether the serjeant-instructors of Volunteers were to have the additional 2 d.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would take this opportunity to tell them what had been done, up to the present time, with the Army Reserve; and, whether anything had been done, or was presumed to be done, with regard to the Militia Reserve. Last year the right hon. Gentleman took a Vote of £30,000 for Volunteers in the Militia engaging to serve in a Militia Reserve Force, and £20,000 for men volunteering by commutation of service for enrolment in the Army Reserve Force. They had heard a great deal last year of these Reserve forces; but he could not hear that anything had been done.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it seemed to him that the original intention of the Government on that subject had not been carried out. It was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman to commence the formation of the two forces last year; but he gathered from his statement that not a single man had yet joined either the Militia Reserve force or the Army Reserve force.
 COLONEL SYKES  called attention to the charge for the surveyor, deputy surveyors, &c., of the Royal Engineers. He objected to an increasing establishment as an insidious thing which they could not get rid
 288
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  wished to say a few words about the camp at Aldershot. He had the honour of sitting in the House when the camp was first projected, and he then raised his voice against it. They had been told, with great truth, that one of the causes of the great losses which our troops suffered in the first Crimean campaign was that they did not know how to kill their meat, to forage, or to perform the other duties incident to the position in which they were placed; and the French troops had a great advantage over them because they had been instructed in routine field work. It was proposed, therefore, to form a camp at Aldershot to give a training to our soldiers, and that was all very well. But in a short time those large barracks were built at immense outlay. He would venture to say that it would have been infinitely better to have spent the money on improving the various barracks in London, some of which were a disgrace to the army. Aldershot, instead of being a camp, was now a large military town, and a military town of the worst description, and was extremely unpopular among the men. When a soldier came home from foreign service, instead of being allowed to go into country quarters or to see his friends, he was sent to Aldershot. He hoped that Aldershot would not be so much used as a winter quarter for the future. It might be available, however, in the summer months. He quite agreed with what had been said by his hon. Friend about the change made in the Estimates. It was a dangerous change. Close upon £40,000 had been spent, and spent wisely, on the establishment at Pimlico, and a large yearly rent was now paid for it. There was no doubt that there would be ample room for all the Woolwich stores in Pimlico.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that whenever he attempted to cut down a Vote for works he was always told that the works were in progress, and that it would be impossible to make any reduction. Last year, when
 289 290
 MR. KINGLAKE  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was anxious to say a few words on this Bill. He thought it was incumbent on those who wished to make a great change—to take away a privilege of 200 years' standing—to show distinctly that what they proposed would be an improvement, and that it would stop that corruption which it was its professed object to put down. Let them look to the tribunal constituted under the Bill. The House was now discussing a second proposal. The first proposal was for Judges of a certain standing; but now they had got to Judges of higher salaries and greater honours, and not only that, but his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) said that they must have a jury also. But where were they to end? Now he, for one, was of opinion that they were departing from the old principles of our law and jurisprudence in putting crimes of such vast consequence not only to individuals, but to the country, upon the judgment of a single man. He cared not who that man was for; they could not show, in the whole range of our law, an instance in which issues of this kind were placed at the will of a
 320
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he rose to correct two inaccuracies of the hon. Member for Chatham. Before last Session men might be flogged for mutiny and insubordination, whether they were in the first or second class, and that rule was continued; and besides the hon. Member for Bedford (Mr. Whitbread), there was another unpledged Member of the Royal Commission, and that was himself. Last year he expressly guarded himself against giving any opinion as to whether corporal punishment ought to be done away with or not. As the subject was now before a Commission, of which he was a Member, he must abstain from taking part in any division upon it.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, last year he voted against the continuance of corporal punishment, and he held the same opinion still; for he believed it would be a good thing if the right hon. Gentleman would state that it should be abolished — that would, he thought, tend to increase the  morâle 324
 MR. OTWAY  said, that this question had been so often argued in the House that he should not dwell upon it at any length. Last year he showed that corporal punishment had failed as a remedial measure; that those soldiers who had been subject to it had become worse men; and that, in modern armies, with one exception, corporal punishment had been abandoned. In the Russian army he believed the lash was still administered; but even there it was more equitable than with us, seeing
 322 323 "No court martial shall for any offence whatever committed under this Act during the time of peace, within the Queen's Dominions, have power to sentence any soldier to corporal punishment."
 LORD OTHO FITZGERALD  moved an Amendment, with the view of placing Ireland in the same position as England and Scotland with respect to the billeting of soldiers. In the latter two countries private individuals were exempted from having soldiers on the march billeted upon them, and what he wanted was that Ireland also should be included in the exemption, which could be effected by leaving out of the clause the words "in Great Britain." The noble Lord moved accordingly.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, that having exempted England and Scotland from this grievance, the Government sought to impose it upon Ireland. This, then, might be considered one of the causes of Irish discontent.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that words were inserted in the Preamble which were not true—namely, that the British army was kept up for the purpose of "maintaining the balance of power in Europe." If he wanted an authority upon this point, he need only refer to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who stated that the British army, which consisted of only 40,000 or 50,000 men, could have no effect upon the balance of European power. He therefore proposed in lines 7 and 8 to omit the words "for the preservation of the balance of power in Europe."
 MAJOR ANSON  called attention to the increase that had taken place in the establishment charges. In 1863 these charges
 286
 MAJOR ANSON  asked for some explanation of the item of £10,000 for old forges and shops.
 COLONEL C. H. LINDSAY : Sir, I rise in the position of a Volunteer commanding officer, and as a duty which I owe to the service in which I am engaged; and I cannot help remarking that the question of an increase of the Capitation Grant is a much more serious one than many people seem to think. I shall, therefore, divide the remarks that I think necessary to make into three parts—namely, the past, the present, and the future, of the Volunteer movement. It is not difficult to describe the two former. With regard to the past, I will simply date back to the year 1859, and ask the Committee to remember what was the feeling which existed upon the question of invasion by France. It was, no doubt, an uneasy one, and one that was derogatory to the character and position of England; and if it had continued, most injurious to the interests of her trade and commerce. A remedy for this state of feeling was wanted. It was found by the bone and sinew of the country, who commenced the great national movement of defence; but which, for a time, did not inspire the necessary confidence. It must be, however, in the recollection of the Committee, that the movement did before long gain the approval and confidence of the country; and, from that time to this, a valuable and necessary armament has been recognized, possessing a great moral effect over Europe, settling the question of invasion, and dispelling alarm and panic, which would have been so destructive to every interest. So much for the past. With respect to the present position of the Volunteer service, it continues to exist. It exists partly upon the inadequate support it receives from the Government; partly, upon the support from private sources, and partly upon its own merits. It is more efficient than at any other period of its history. It has been mainly instrumental in the introduction of rifle shooting throughout the country. It has been instrumental in advancing science, in the manufacture of small arms, and it has produced the most remarkable skill in the use of those arms. Its discipline, its prestige, its morality, and its social element, are in a higher state of action than at any other time; and it is ready and anxious to continue to preserve those attributes, provided the Government of the day is willing to support it, and provide for its requirements; and this brings me to the important sub-
 271 272
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that one suggestion made by the hon. Member for Westminster, to the effect that any transfer of jurisdiction to an external tribunal should be temporary in its character and renewable from time to time, was well worthy of favourable consideration. The experiment was a bold one, and he entertained great doubts whether it would succeed. The House seemed hardly to attach sufficient value to the constitutional privilege which, to a great extent, it still retained of appointing its own tribunal to try those important questions concerning the seats of its own Members. The hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. P. Wykeham-Martin) had very properly objected to the proposal to place the trial of controverted elections in the hands of a Judge without a jury. For what was the present tribunal but a small jury selected with care by the House, and composed of men in whom it could trust, to try the question of facts, whether the sitting Member by his agents had or had not been guilty of bribery? Let the House bear in mind that this privilege had been only won from the Crown after a great struggle 250 years ago. It was thought then by our ancestors, who were as wise, perhaps wiser, than ourselves upon these matters, that it was essential to their independence that they should have the trial of these questions in their own hands. And if hon. Members thought fit to look back to the Great Remonstrance
 314 ad captandum 315 316
 MR. BOUVERIE  expressed a hope that the measure would not only establish the validity of what had already been done; but would provide for the commutation of Other ecclesiastical estates not already commuted.
 LORD ELCHO  said, the intention of the Secretary of State for War was excellent—that of placing the Volunteers and other Reserves under a distinguished general officer, in order to effect as far as possible unity of action in the place of the present divided authority; but he did not see that the right hon. Baronet would be able to do more in time of peace by the change than was at present done by the inspectors. The Militia and Volunteers would never be required to be called out in the time of peace, and in time of war, then,  ipso facto, 274 in formâ pauperis.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he did not consider it a promotion; because, whereas Colonel M'Murdo had been promoted to the office of Inspector General of Volunteers, Colonel Erskine was only placed in the same position as that which Colonel M'Murdo previously occupied.
 LORD ELCHO , calling attention to the charges attending the camp at Aldershot, urged the desirability of adopting the recommendation of the Royal Commission by dispensing with a permanent encampment. The buildings were liable to constant expenditure for repairs, and it gave great dissatisfaction, both to officers and men, to be kept in camp during the winter. It would be much better to keep the troops in barracks in different parts of the country, and march them to these places temporarily, keeping them under canvas there. It was also desirable that as many officers or generals as possible should have the opportunity of commanding large bodies of troops, and such appointments should therefore be made yearly, instead of only once in five years.
 LORD ELCHO  felt very strongly that it was not desirable it should go forth in any way to the public that the Volunteer commanding officers came to the House of Commons asking for money  in formâ pauperis. 283 s., s., s.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether any defect exists as regards the levying of Rates for Sanitary Improvements in the provisions of the forty-ninth Clause of "The Sanitary Act, 1866," and of the second Clause of "The Sewage Utilization Act, 1867;" and, if so, whether he proposes during the present Session to bring in any measure to remedy the same; and, whether any
 259
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that when the matter was first mentioned to him he saw no particular objection to the appointment of an independent auditor; but he had not then heard the objections of the City authorities. As no charge was made against the mode in which the accounts had hitherto been audited, he hoped the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets would withdraw his clause.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether an order has been issued by the Governor General in Council in India—
 "Relative to providing a room in the Lines of European Regiments in India to which the men can resort for private reading and prayer, and for holding prayer meetings and other meetings of a similar character, and directing that a room of a suitable size, with such furniture as may be deemed to fit it for the purposes above-mentioned, shall be considered one of the recognized requirements in the barracks of every British Regiment or considerable detachment of British Troops; and further that a residence will be assigned to a Scripture Reader in the married quarters."
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the other evening, while he was calling attention to some remarks made by the Secretary of State for War, the right hon. Baronet had interrupted him for the purpose of declaring that he had not made the statement attributed to him. Since then he had enjoyed the advantage of reading a very accurate report of the speech made by the right hon. Baronet, and found that it exactly corresponded with the views which he had expressed, and that the right hon.
 273
 MR. AYRTON  moved the following clause:—
 "The accounts of the Coal and Wine Duties shall be audited by the auditor appointed by the Secretary of State under the Act of the eighteenth and nineteenth of Victoria, chapter one hundred and twenty, in the same manner as the accounts of the Metropolitan Board are directed to be audited under that Act, and the mayor, aldermen, and commons of the city of London shall lay before the auditor all the accounts and vouchers relating to the said Coal and Wine Duties, and the auditor shall have and exercise in regard to such accounts all the powers that he has in regard to the accounts of the Metropolitan Board."
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he should persist in moving the clause. It was one that ought really to be adopted. There should be an independent and efficient audit.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the House was now discussing for the first time a measure of great importance, and, before going into Committee, they ought to know how Scotch and Irish petitions were to be tried. Were they to be tried in the same manner, or were they to be tried in Scotland and Ireland by the ordinary Judges? He would not attempt the disagreeable task of persuading hon. Members to retain an authority which they felt themselves conscientiously unfit to exercise; but he doubted whether this measure would improve the administration of the law. It had, apparently, two objects—first to deprive the House of its jurisdiction, in regard to the right of Members to sit in it, and secondly to repress electoral corruption. Now, would it not be better to pursue the latter object alone, without dealing with the question of jurisdiction? That question had important constitutional bearings; and its transference to the Judges might raise the question whether a seat had been vacated, or whether a writ had been properly issued, leading, perhaps, to a conflict between the House and an authority beyond its walls. It had been said that there was a law of the land as administered in Westminster Hall, and a law of Parliament administered in this House, and that a Judge thoroughly conversant with the former might be profoundly ignorant of the latter. Now, a Judge vested with this authority might enforce what he held to be the law of the land without taking due cognizance of the law of Parliament. So far from their being likely to repress bribery, he believed these provisions were artfully conceived for the purpose of encouraging bribery. ["Oh!"]. He would tell the House why. A Judge of Assize was to go down, with all the dignity of his office, to try a charge of electoral corruption. He would not go down like those ferrets, the Commissioners, who had no dignity to uphold, and who could pur-
 317
 MR. AYRTON  hoped that before the Motion was agreed to the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury would state the intentions of the Government with respect to Ireland and Scotland.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, If it is the intention of the Government to send out any person to the East Coast of Africa, to inquire into the truth of the report that there are detained as prisoners, by the Somali tribe, some survivors of the ship  St. Abbe,
 MR. A. MITCHELL  said, he rose to move the Resolution of which he had given Notice. He was sorry that the task of bringing forward this Motion had not been undertaken by some Member of more experience; but, no one else having taken it up, he felt it his absolute duty to do so. He thought local investigations into corrupt practices at elections would be more satisfactory than as they were now conducted. Investigations should be more rapid, and should be made by one who was intimately acquainted with the law — a man of honour, capable of sifting evidence; but, at the same time, he was convinced that the retention by the House of its own jurisdiction and the right of determining who were its Members was essential to its dignity and independence. There was to be no appeal from the Judge who tried the petition. The proceeding of the Judge was to be final, and his order was to be carried
 297
 MR. DISRAELI : We propose, when this Bill is carried, to introduce Bills for Ireland and Scotland analogous in their nature to this, though not exactly the same. We do not contemplate that it will be necessary to increase the number of Judges either in Ireland or in Scotland.
 MR. DISRAELI  moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. DISRAELI : With respect to the Capital Punishments Bill, if it comes on late—and of course discussion is anticipated upon it—we shall not press it. If it is the wish of the House that the Telegraphs Bill should not be brought forward, of course we are in their hands, and shall not press it. In answer to Questions, the right hon. Gentleman added, that neither the Capital Punishments Bill nor the Controverted Elections Bill would be brought on after half-past ten o'clock.
 MR. DISRAELI : Of course the arrangement of business for this evening will be greatly dependent on those Gentlemen who have Motions upon going into Committee of Supply, and if a considerable time is occupied with these, I must modify the proposed arrangements. In that case I shall not be able to proceed, as I could much have wished to do, with the Controverted Elections Bill, as I understand there is to be considerable discussion in Committee on the Mutiny Bill, and that is of so pressing a character. But if we go into Supply and obtain some Votes, then I shall avail myself of the privilege of going on with the Controverted Elections Bill. With respect to the Motion of which the Chancellor of the Exchequer has given notice on the subject of telegraphy, we anticipated that probably the House would be satisfied with hearing his statement, and that there would be no discussion on it, and therefore that it might be made at a very late period of the evening.
 MR. MONK  asked for some explanation of the legal difficulties which had rendered such a measure necessary.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  moved an Amendment. The hon. Member explained that, according to the present regulations, Government only allowed 1 s.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  felt that the Volunteer force must have been greatly disappointed at the answer given to the deputation the other day. The impression created in the minds of hon. Members, by the language used by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War last year, was that this subject would be well considered and that some addition would be made to the resources of the Volunteer corps. The Yeomanry force was actually paid while out for training. That was not required by the Volunteers; but he thought, if the public provided the funds for prizes to stimulate rifle-shooting, all other necessary expenses ought to be borne by the State, and especially that of clothing, which was a necessary article of Volunteer equipment.
 Mr. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he believed that, under ordinary circumstances, the House would be disposed cheerfully to vote any reasonable amount that might be requisite for the Volunteer force; but he thought it might be preferable to give them the clothing, and leave the Capitation Grant as it stood.
 MR. CRAUFURD  opposed the progress of the Bill, on the ground that it would, by its operation, entail as much expense as, or more expense than, was caused by the present system. He thought that it was due to the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down and to the House that the Head of the Government should meet the objections which had been urged against the Bill. He begged, therefore, to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BERKELEY  said, this was a Bill which had come down to the House by
 303 The Times, 304
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the Bill was essential in order to establish the validity of certain sales of capitular property under Orders in Council, on the legality of which some doubt had been thrown by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
 MR. BENTINCK  intimated his intention to oppose the Bill on its next stage.
 MR. GOSCHEN  did not see why in a Continuance Bill a different audit should be established from that already provided.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the annual audit of these sums had been carried into effect in accordance with the terms of the Treasury Minute, and the results of that audit would be laid upon the table of the House as soon as possible. He could not promise, however, that they would be ready by a very early day.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied, that the receipts were calculated on the rates in force at the time when the Return was made up. If the increased rates now in force had been taken into consideration, there ought to have been an increase in the estimate of £2,900 per month. The whole of the sums receivable in India, as well as elsewhere, were taken into account in this estimate, and a separate account of the outward and inward postage was kept.
 MR. TREVELYAN  said, that the strongest statement in favour of the Amendment was that there had, in the year, been only seventeen cases of corporal punishment, whilst enlistments were largely increased by the extra 2 d.
 MR. BRUEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the Bonus Committee sitting in India are likely to come to a settlement of claims to compensation made by Officers in the late East India Company's Army?
 MR. CHILDERS  believed that the same reasons precisely had been urged in favour
 326
 MR. CHILDERS  called attention to what, he said, formed a serious departure from the usual mode of stating some of the items of the present Vote. In the case of any Vote proposed for the first time and involving further liability, it was usual to set out in the first column of the Estimates the total amount which the Department had it in contemplation to expend upon that particular object. And having dealt thus frankly with the House, the Government were able to come down in any subsequent year, when a further instalment of the money was asked for and
 287
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had not objected to the form of the Estimates; but been introduced that year ought to have been noticed.
 MR. CHILDERS  concurred in the wish that the Estimates had been more clearly prepared. He trusted that the Civil Estimates when produced would be found to be arranged, not after the fashion of the Army, but of the Navy Estimates. He wished to say a word about the storehouses at Woolwich. He was far from saying that more store accommodation was not needed at the Tower. But the Admiralty had valuable property at Woolwich and at Deptford suitable for storing purposes; and he did not see why the Admiralty and the War Office might not have referred the matter to the Treasury for settlement. The First Lord of the Admiralty had stated that he would abandon Deptford, and, after a time, Woolwich, as far as shipbuilding was concerned; but Deptford was the best store receiving place in the Kingdom; and it would therefore be a great waste of money to spend £70,000 for new storehouses at Woolwich. He trusted that the Admiralty and the War Office would come to some arrangement in regard to this matter.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped that the sum of £3,000 proposed for the new storehouses would be omitted.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had intended to move the omission of the item of £3,000; but would not do so if he received an assurance that the matter should be decided by the Treasury.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he should vote with his hon. Friend (Mr. Alderman Lusk) if the Motion were pressed to a division.
 MR. DENT , in answer to the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. D. Griffith), said he supposed that the reason why the Yeomanry were paid and the Volunteers were not was, that the Yeomanry had to be away from home with their horses for eight days, while it seldom happened that the Volunteers were absent for a single night.
 COLONEL NORTH  concurred with the hon. Baronet as to the effect of Aldershot as winter quarters. He could not expect men returning from twelve or fifteen years of foreign service to like being sent to
 291
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, What were the grounds on which the Board accepted the resignation of Dr. Rogers, the late Medical Officer of the Strand Union; and, whether that resignation implied anything unfavourable to the character or to the professional ability of Dr. Rogers?
 MR. J. STUART MILL : Sir, if the question were solely between the Bill of Her Majesty's Government and the Amendment, I should have no hesitation in at at once deciding for the Bill. Not that it corresponds or comes up in all respects to my notion of what such a Bill should be. Nor do I believe that by any one expedient—and there is only one expedient in this Bill—we can hope to put down corrupt practices. If the House are in earnest in their desire to put down corrupt practices at elections—and I am bound to believe that they are, however little credit they receive for such earnestness out of doors—I apprehend they
 309 310 311
 COLONEL WILSON-PATTEN  said, that having the honour of being Chairman of the Commission which had been alluded to, he also should refrain from voting on the present occasion.
 MR. PIM  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the working of "The Local Government (England) Act, 1858," and "The General Police and Improvement (Scotland) Act, 1862," and to the facilities afforded by those Acts to corporate and other towns in Great Britain to obtain power for the better execution of the Local Improvement Acts in force in such towns, without incurring the costs and expenses attendant upon Private Bill Legislation; whether it is his intention to propose any similar Act for Ireland, by which the advantages now enjoyed by the cities and towns of England and Scotland, and which have been so largely availed of, be extended to the cities and towns of Ireland; whether the Laws which provide for the keeping, for the auditing, and for the publication of the accounts of the municipal corporations, the boards of town commissioners, and some other public bodies in Ireland, are not very defective, and whether he intends to propose any remedy therefor; whether it is not the case that, in respect to the election of commissioners under "The Towns Improvement (Ireland) Act, 1854," equal facilities are not provided for the exercise of the Franchise as are provided for the
 257
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was of opinion that unless some aid was afforded to the Volunteers they could not be kept at their present state of efficiency. The legitimate expenses of the Volunteer corps very much exceeded the amount they received from the Capitation Grant, and the commanding officers of regiments had generally a considerable amount to pay out of their own pockets. Even with the increased sum which was asked from the Government, he (Mr. Dillwyn) knew that he would still have to put his hand in his pocket, though not to the same extent. It was in fact a question, whether the Volunteer force was to be maintained on an efficient footing.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, in reply, that the circumstances of the case referred to by the hon. Member were these:—In December last the Board of Guardians of the Strand Union called upon their medical officer. Dr. Rogers, to resign, and the matter coming before the Poor Law Board, they asked for an explanation of the reasons for such a step being taken. The Board of Guardians returned for answer that Dr. Rogers had, for a long time past, committed a series of indiscretions which rendered it impossible for them to work harmoniously together, and exhibiting a great want of courtesy in his communications with the Officers of the Board. The result was, that the Board thought it necessary to suspend him from his office. With respect to the second part of the Question, he could not do better than read the concluding paragraph of the Board's letter on the occasion, which stated—
 "The Board are happy to be able to add that no blame can be imputed to you in reference to the discharge of your strictly professional duties, and the Board do not doubt that you have shown, zeal and ability in the performance of them. This adds to the regret of the Board that you should, from other causes, have rendered it necessary for them to accept your resignation."
 MR. P. WYKEHAM - MARTIN  said, he approved of the suggestion of the hon. Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) that the old common law practice should be reverted to, and the evidence on election petitions be heard before a Judge and jury. It was proposed to inflict a very heavy penalty on a man for bribery—no less than making him an outlaw for seven years, which was a great deal worse than the punishment which would be inflicted on him if he had robbed a hen-roost. And yet the man might have been guilty of no crime at all. They proposed not to subject him to the opinion of the country—to which there was no objection—but to the caprice of a single individual. He did not, in the least degree, impute any impropriety to the Judge, who would, no doubt, try the case conscientiously; but the opinion of Judges on the moral guilt of bribery varied, for he had himself heard one Judge assert that, in his opinion, there was no moral guilt to be imputed to a candidate for the former borough of St. Albans, because it was the custom to give the voters £10 a head all round, therefore, a man gained the same whichever way he voted; and another assert that, in his view, it was bribery on the past of a candidate to subscribe to the local charities, and even to the local rifle corps. If, as was said by the right hon. Baronet, bribery was an evil which it was to the interest of the whole country that anyone practising it should be subjected to the penalty, then the accused person ought to be tried by a jury of his countrymen. So strong were the opinions of some men as to what was bribery, that he remembered on the occasion of one of his elections giving a dinner to his own father, and the solicitor who was the agent came in, and insisted, under the Corrupt Practices Prevention Act, that his father should pay for his share of the dinner. His father had to pay, and the solicitor saw a regular receipt given for it before he went away. Now, was that an act of bribery or not? This Bill ought not to be made a trap involving the most fearful penalties for what might be a perfectly innocent act. He was told a few days ago by a most eminent
 308 bonâ fide,
 MR. CRAWFORD  objected to the clause.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the sums, amounting in the whole to £27,643, stated in a Return dated 7th December, 1867 (Parliamentary Paper, No. 68, of the present Session), to be the estimated receipts in respect of the Eastern Mail Services outwards and inwards for four weeks, are calculated at the rates of postage in force at the time when the Return was made up, or at the present increased rates; and, in the former case, what may be the sum by which the Estimate of £27,643 may be expected to be augmented by reason of the increased charge; whether the sums receivable in India or elsewhere out of the United Kingdom are included in the estimate in question, so as to come in further diminution of the sum which may be voted for the conveyance of the Eastern Mails; and, whether an exact account is kept of the postages received or chargeable in respect of the said Services?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  opposed the Amendment. The grievance complained of was seldom experienced, and limited to a few persons. The fact was that the scarcity of public-houses in certain parts of the country in Ireland rendered it necessary to billet soldiers upon some private houses.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, in reply, that if there was any objection to proceed that night with the Bill, which was similar to the one introduced last year, it should be taken the next day.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that having been a Member of the Committee, which last year recommended a Bill something in the nature of that now under theconsideration of the House, he wished to be allowed to state some of the reasons which had induced them to come to the conclusions at which they ultimately arrived. Before doing so, however, he must remark that the hon. Member who had just sat down (Mr. A. Mitchell) had, by the terms of his Notice, led the House to believe that he desired that the trial of election petitions should remain as at present; but, on the contrary, when he came to make his speech, he had proposed, as an alternative to the scheme of the Bill, a plan which was open to two or three grave and fatal objections. In the first place, the hon. Gentleman proposed that two Members of that House should accompany a certain set of lawyers, who were to be barristers of seven years' standing, down to the spot from whence the petition emanated to try the election petition. If that proposition were adopted it would often be impossible that the trial of election petitions could be entered upon immediately; because, if the House were not assembled, whence would they get the two Members who were to form a portion of the Commission? In the next place, if the House were sitting, it might place the Members selected to go down to the country in a most inconvenient position as regarded their respective constituents, who would naturally find fault with them if they were absent when grave and important questions were under the consideration of the House. The third objection to the hon. Member's plan was the most fatal of them all. The Grenville Act had been passed for the purpose of getting rid of the horrible system of bringing discussions on election petitions upon the floor of that House; but the hon. Member proposed, in contravention of the spirit of that Act, to bring the Reports of the Commissioners under the cognizance of the House on the Motion of any hon.
 299 300 301
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he believed the answer to the first part of the hon. Gentleman's speech was very easy—namely, that, by the very provisions of the Bill now before the House, Her Majesty's Government must almost of necessity bring in a measure which, regard being had to the different circumstances of the country, would establish as nearly as possible the same system for Scotland and Ireland. The objections taken to this Bill were of four kinds. The first objection insisted on in the Amendment, and still more strengthened by the argument of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), was that it was proposed to take away the jurisdiction of the House. But the Secretary of State for India had shown very clearly that the privilege supposed to belong to the House was clearly imaginary. It was very true, as the right hon. Gentleman had reminded them, that the House
 318 319
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, however unpleasant the proposal of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill)
 312 in banco 313 puisne
 MR. ACLAND  said, he intended to refer to the Grant made for that object, and he had suggested that money should be granted for the purpose of enabling battalions to take part in brigade field days.
 MR. ACLAND  hoped that the Secretary for War would give the House a fuller explanation than had as yet been afforded, respecting the scheme for the organization of the Reserved forces. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would state his views clearly and fully on that subject. His impression of what the Secretary of State said on a former occasion was that he had found it expedient for administrative purposes to concentrate certain offices in the hands of one general officer; and that he quoted a letter from the general commanding the forces in the North, to show that certain inconvenience arose from the present relations between the generals of districts and this auxiliary force. For his own part he must say—and his experience dated from the very commencement of the Volunteer movement — that a good deal of inconvenience now arose from the undefined relations between commanding officers of Volunteers, Volunteer associations, who endeavour not very successfully to provide the corps with locomotion, the assistant inspector, and the general of the district. It was quite true that, under the Act of Parliament, there was a line that might be drawn, which did clearly define their respective duties. But he could give very strong instances to show that great inconvenience did arise from this source. He
 276 277 s.
 MR. ACLAND  explained that, in the remarks that he had made, he had spoken not for the Volunteers generally, but only for his own battalion.
 MR. STOCK  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Law in Ireland is the same as that in England with regard to the treatment of prisoners convicted of seditious libel?
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he also wished to ask, Whether a cooking apparatus of a similar character had been patented by Mr. Jaques?
 MR. GREGORY  asked leave to make a brief personal explanation, and to do justice to a gentleman to whom he had unintentionally done injustice. In the discussion which took place the other night on the Motion of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire), he (Mr. Gregory) al-
 265
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Order for the daily payment of Men in the Army after Morning Parade in the presence of an Officer under Queen's Regulations 1859, page 132, sec. 65, is continued in the same way by the Queen's Regulations 1868, page 90, paragraph 387, which states, "that the issue of pay is to be made punctually, in accordance with Royal Warrant, Part I., paragraph 534," this paragraph not being set out in the Queen's Regulations; and, whether the Order for the daily payment of Men in the presence of an Officer renders it necessary to pay the Men on Sunday, in the presence of an Officer after Morning Parade, there being no other Parade except Church Parade, which does not always take place at the same hour for all the Men of a Regiment?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he had always been in favour of economy; but he thought it barely respectable for the country to take services which were admitted to be very valuable, and, at the same time, to allow poor men to put their hands into their own pockets for the purpose of rendering those services.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that soldiers really required something to do. The other day a deserter was brought before him when sitting as a magistrate, and he said to the prisoner, "You are an intelligent young man—why did you leave the army?" The answer was, that he hated the army—that there was nothing but drill, drill, everlasting drill, day after day, and that it was perfectly intolerable.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  inquired how much it was proposed to spend on military billiard-rooms this year? [An hon. MEMBER: £3,000.] If that is so, I shall move an Amendment to it.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  moved to omit from the Vote £3,000 for billiard tables. He did not see that we were bound to provide the officers of the army with billiard tables, any more than we were bound to provide them with card tables, fowling pieces, or horses for fox-hunting. It was also desirable for the sake of the young men themselves that they should not be encouraged to frequent billiard rooms, which were often so full of tobacco smoke that one could hardly see from one side to the other. This created lassitude, and the frequenters of the rooms could not always very well tell what they were about. It was too much to ask the public to find amusement for young men who entered the army. If their wages were too small, let them ask for more.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  observed, that last year it was said by the hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway) that men were deterred from entering the army by the existence of corporal punishments. Now, the fact was that, during the last year, 26,000 men had re-enlisted; and this was a larger number than those for the whole seven years before amounted to, and recruiting had during the year enormously increased. The cases of corporal punishment had also during the year amounted in number to only seventeen for the whole army. They, at this time of day, were rather in favour of jumping to conclusions all of a sudden. Much improvement had taken place in the army, and this was caused to a great extent by the measure of the right hon. Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), who increased the pay of the soldier 2 d.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he feared some misapprehension existed regarding the constitutional question involved in the Bill. It seemed to be assumed that the jurisdiction of the House of Commons over its election petitions was a part of the ancient Constitution, and of the liberties of Parliament; but it could be traced back no earlier than Elizabeth's time, and originated in an anomalous usurpation by the House of Commons contrary to the common law of the country; though probably it was necessary, considering the influence of the Crown at that time, that Parliament should vindicate its right to say who should and who should not sit in the House. No such vindication, however, was necessary in these days. What, then, was the common law on the subject? Before that usurpation to which he referred, the common law was that a return to a writ, if triable, had to be invariably contested in the Court from which it had issued, and to which it returned. The writ for the election of Members of Parliament issued from the Court of Chancery; and the return was still made to that Court, and no Member could take his seat until the return had been so made. If questioned, the validity of the return was tried in the Courts of Law; if impeached by a demurrer, it was tried in the Court of Chancery, sitting as a Court of Common Law; if impeached by a traverse, the Lord Chancellor delivered the record into the hands of the officers of the Court of Queen's Bench, and the trial was made by that Court and a jury. This was the more worthy of remark because the Judges had lately declared themselves incompetent to decide any election questions; whereas, by the common law of the
 302 De Coronatore eligendo,
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he thought that the time had arrived when no antique jealousy of the Crown should be allowed to interfere with the efficiency
 278
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  remarked that the right hon. Gentleman had adverted to the possibility of sending a portion of the Guards away from the middle of London to a most inconvenient barrack at Chelsea. Two years ago, indeed, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper) suggested that the barracks behind the National Gallery might, perhaps, be done away with at some future time. On the very night that suggestion was made he chanced to walk from the House to Hyde Park, and there found a mob busily engaged in knocking down the railings. That circumstance plainly showed
 295
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  was of opinion that nothing tended so much to make the army unpopular as Aldershot. It would be very well to send men to encamp there occasionally; but to condemn them to winter quarters in those vile huts had a very mischievous effect.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON , in reply, said, he was not prepared to admit that there were defects in the Law to which his noble Friend pointed. Where the Secretary of State had reason to believe there was any disinclination on the part of the local authority to execute necessary drainage operations, he sent down a person to inquire into the case; if he found the local authority disinclined to perform the necessary works, he ordered them to be carried into execution, and he had power to recover the cost of the works. The remedy was by attachment of the property of the defaulting parties. In the case of a vestry there was no personal property; and it was a question, whether the Secretary of State could oblige the overseers to pay. The Opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown had been taken last year, and, from their Opinion, it appeared doubtful if the Act of 1867 gave powers to the Secretary of State to issue a precept to the overseer to levy additional rates. But, believing that the Legislature intended to give him the power to enforce his order, his (Sir James Fergusson's) right hon. Friend intended to try to enforce it, and if he found that he had not that power, he would apply to Parliament for additional powers. The parishes in question had failed to execute the necessary works because the Metropolitan Board declined to allow them to drain into the only available outfall, on the ground that it was insufficient for the purpose. They would therefore have to take other steps.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, it was quite true that Captain Warren had claimed to have invented such an apparatus; but he believed that Captain Warren had been sufficiently rewarded by having his apparatus purchased from his own agents, and he (Sir John Pakington) certainly had no intention to refer the question to any Committee. With reference to the Question of the hon. Member
 258
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the first step he had taken to carry out the Act was to increase the number of the Militia.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that certain charges for police, &c., were transferred from Votes 3 and 12 to this Vote, and they swelled the Vote in appearance, although the sum asked for was not greater in reality. The Vote included a proposal to spend £20,000 upon hospitals for contagious diseases.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the noble Lord referred to this question on Monday last, and had charged him with having made no reference to this subject in his general Statement. The noble Lord was mistaken. He stated then—what he was prepared to repeat now—that one very important step had been taken, and that in accordance with the plan of the right hon. Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), the Government had decided that the entire corps of the Militia should be raised up to its increased quota—half the battalions in the present year and the other half next year. Last year, before the change was decided on, the Militia regiments were 5,000 below the strength of their reduced quota. But when the order was given to raise the regiments to their full quota recruiting commenced, and was so successfully carried on, that, instead of the force being 5,000 below the reduced quota, it was now only 2,300 below the
 285
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the whole matter had been duly weighed and considered before it was determined to remove the barracks to Chelsea.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  assured his hon. Friend that no premature step should be taken; and that he would make inquiries to see whether there could be any arrangement which would render the proposed expenditure unnecessary.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  remarked that the worthy Alderman had fought this battle of the billiard board last year with great gallantry, and had been defeated. The item for billiard tables was inserted last year for the first time by the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) and the worthy Alderman could hardly have forgotten the grounds on which the Committee allowed it.
 296
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he intended that the matter should be referred to the Treasury.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, there had been a great many inquiries and criticisms on this Vote; but he could not help expressing his sense of the courtesy with which they had been made. As to the remarks of his hon. and gallant Friend and the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes) on the establishment charges, he had to say that the increase to which they referred was to be attributed to the transfer to that Vote of charges previously made in other Votes. With respect to what his hon. and gallant Friend had said on the great expense for barracks as compared with the accommodation afforded, this was the result of the anxiety manifested by the House for the health and comfort of the soldiers. Under existing regulations one-third more cubic space was provided for the soldier than had been hitherto afforded to him. He believed that this was a very great improvement; but the House would at once see that one of its consequences must be that the expense, as compared with the actual accommodation of a given number of troops, must be greater than it had formerly been. His hon. and gallant Friend had complained that the War Department was not proceeding as rapidly as it ought to do with the married soldiers' quarters. This showed how careful they had to be in preparing these Estimates. On the one hand, they were liable to be accused of extravagance; and on the other, they were open to attacks for not doing this and not doing that. He was as conscious as his hon. and gallant Friend of the importance, for the propriety and respectability of the army, of providing a sufficiency of married soldiers' quarters as soon as possible. But this was attended with very considerable expense, and therefore it had been thought advisable to proceed gradually. The sum voted this year was £30,000 for this purpose,
 292
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  reminded the hon. Gentleman that he could not prepare these Estimates in reference to an opinion uttered by his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty only a few days ago. He should be glad, however, to come if possible to an arrangement with the Admiralty, in which event the proposed expenditure would of course be unnecessary.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not the champion of the form in which these Estimates appeared, and admitted that his difficulty in explaining the Estimates was much increased by not bringing the charge of the current year in close juxtaposition with the charge of last year. With regard to the estimated expenses in the last column, he did not at all intend thereby to involve the House in any pledge. He very much doubted whether it did pledge the House; it was intended only as a frank statement of the final cost of the works commenced. As to the charges for Malta and Gibraltar, they were only to defray a particular outlay; and he would not disguise from the Committee that, in all probability, if these two fortresses were to be placed in a proper state of defence, they must look forward to a much larger expenditure than anything entered either in the present Estimates or in those of last year. Another item alluded to by his hon. Friend was the expenditure proposed on account of Chelsea Barracks, and here his hon. Friend was under some misapprehension. It was thought desirable to extend the barrack accommodation at Chelsea, with a view to set free the St. George's Barracks, behind the National Gallery, for a recruiting depôt. In carrying out the new regulations with regard to recruiting, and those improvements in the system which were mentioned in the Commissioners' Report, a good recruiting depôt in London was found indispensable, and the most convenient place was the St. George's Barracks,
 293 294
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he not only could have no objection to what had been said by his hon. Friend behind him, but he could not dissent from a word he had heard on the subject, with the exception only of what fell from the hon. and gallant Member for Abingdon (Colonel C. H. Lindsay), who went so far as to state his opinion that, because the Government had declined to accede to the propositions which had been made to them, they were indifferent to the success of the Volunteers. He was anxious to say that there was no foundation whatever for such an assertion. As far as he was personally concerned, he could only express his regret that the hon. Member should have made a statement in support of which he could give no good reason. Those who were members of that most important deputation, and those who heard his statement on Monday night could not accuse him of having giving utterance to any remark that would justify such an accusation being brought against him. In his opinion the Volunteer movement was a very noble one, and he appreciated most highly the value of the fine body of men it had placed at the service of the country. His Colleagues entirely concurred with him in looking upon the movement as the most striking and successful one that had taken place in any country in Europe for a long time. From the time of its commence-
 279 280
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had proposed that increase because he thought that the case was one in which it might reasonably be given; and he should be ready to give his consideration to any case in which it was thought that a similar course might be attended with advantage. He would now turn to another matter, and he trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) would not impute to him any disrespect when he stated that the hon. Gentleman had entirely mistaken what he had said on a former occasion. The hon. Gentleman had said that he had referred to his speech. The hon. Gentleman had in that case done more than he himself had done; but, whatever report the hon. Gentleman had consulted, he could only say that he was misinformed when he stated that it was his intention to place the Volunteers and the Militia under the general officers commanding in districts. He had not the slightest idea of doing anything of the kind. His hon. Friend the Member for Devonshire had rightly interpreted his intentions, which, however, appear to have been misunderstood by several hon. Members. Hitherto the Volunteers and the Militia had been placed under the command of three different persons. The Volunteers had been commanded—or rather, placed under the supervision of an officer of the rank of a colonel or lieutenant-colonel. The Militia were also placed under the superintendence and charge of an officer of the rank of a colonel or lieutenant-colonel; and the Army of Reserve were similarly commanded. His belief was, that it would be better to place these bodies under the direction of one instead of three distinct officers, and that that officer should possess a higher rank than that of colonel or lieutenant colonel. He had therefore placed these bodies under the supervision of a general officer of high rank; but he had not intended to carry the change any further, or to alter the re-
 281
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that his desire had been throughout to treat Colonel Erskine with the greatest possible fairness and consideration, and it was in that spirit that he was led to offer Colonel Erskine the command of the Military Train, which had been rendered vacant by the lamented death of Colonel Kennedy, who had fallen a victim to the exertions in connection with the Abyssinian war. He had been sorry to hear the hon. Member for Devonshire say that he had fined Colonel Erskine £400 a year. He did not know what the difference was between the value of the two appointments. [Mr. ACLAND said, that the effect of the change was to decrease Colonel Erskine's income between £300 and £400 a year.] Whatever it was, it was only a matter of two years; for at the end of that time Colonel Erskine's command as inspector-General of Volunteers would have come to a termination. He believed, however, that he had appointed Colonel Erskine to a superior position; and if anything should occur to interfere with the permanence of the present
 282
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he had written to the Adjutant General with reference to the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, but he had not yet received a reply. He would give an answer to the hon. and gallant Member's Question on a subsequent day.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  resisted the Amendment, on the ground that 1 s.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that considering the present position of the question, he should not think it necessary to follow the hon. Member at any length. He would merely remind the Committee that very great concessions were made upon this subject last Session. Corporal punishment was now in a very different position from that in which it had ever been before. The Government had recommended the appointment of a Royal Commission, which was to inquire not only into the constitution of Courts martial, but into the whole system of military punishments. Under these circumstances, he hoped the hon. Member would not press his Motion.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that having made inquiries upon the subject, he found that, from the scarcity of public-houses on certain roads in Ireland, it became necessary sometimes to billet soldiers on private houses.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , though not concurring in the reason urged by the hon. Gentleman for the omission of the words, nevertheless did not consider them of sufficient importance to contest the point.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  observed that the Secretary of State for War had informed the House the other night that it would be impossible to increase the Grant as a whole; but the Government should recollect that the object was not to increase the numbers of the force so much as to render the force efficient. For this end no arrangement was likely to be so serviceable as keeping them in the field with regular troops, and it would be worth while to allow them a field allowance for this purpose.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, he had received no information on the subject of this order, although he had seen some reference to it in the newspapers. If such an order had been issued he would no doubt receive official information respecting it in a few days.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought that what the hon. Gentleman who spoke last had said made, to a considerable extent, a case for the introduction of that Bill. He perfectly agreed with the hon. Gentleman that since the recent changes in the constitution of the Election Committees of that House it would be difficult, perhaps impossible, to point to any case in which those Committees had failed to do their duty; and that, nevertheless, in spite of the purity and efficiency of the Committees of that House, the system of bribery, as they very well kenw, prevailed to a scandalous degree. Well, the hon. Member had a  nostrum 305 306 307
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, several Committees were sitting upon this subject. Inquiries had to be made into the particulars of each case, and in a great number of instances an award had been made of the sums payable to the Officers. As fast as the awards were made the money awarded was paid over to those entitled to receive it.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that a deputation, consisting of members of the Royal Geographical Society, including Sir Roderick Murchison, waited upon him at the India Office some time ago, and represented that steps should be taken to inquire into the truth of the report relative to the supposed survivors of the ship  St. Abbe. 261
 SIR T. F. BUXTON  said, he thought it was desirable to have a wider range of selection for the commanders of Volunteer corps than they had at present. At present the class was extremely limited, because the commanding officer must not only have some knowledge of military matters, but he must be able from his own means to keep a horse, and to be prepared to spend from £300 to £600 a
 284
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he should not then consider whether the whole question of our Reserve force should be referred to a Royal Commission; but it would be very desirable to make the grievance of the Volunteer corps the subject of such an inquiry. The difference between the Volunteer and Militia forces was such that the inquiry into one ought to be to a certain degree independent of the other. He hoped, therefore, that the Secretary of State for War would not consider himself precluded by the answer he gave the other day, from allowing this question to undergo a strict inquiry. The time had arrived when the inquiry of 1862 ought to be resumed, because at that time the Volun-
 275
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  expressed a wish to make some remarks upon this Vote. An influential deputation, composed of Volunteer commanding officers, had recently waited upon his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War. The deputation was most courteously received, but its prayer was not granted—that prayer being that some increase should be made in the amount of the Grant voted for the Volunteer service. He (Colonel Barttelot) believed that, in the opinion of that House and the country, the Volunteer force was considered a most valuable though inexpensive one, and that it ought to be maintained in an efficient state. The question for the House and the country to consider was, whether such efficiency could be secured by a small addition to the existing Grant, or whether, by the refusal of the application made, they were running the risk of diminishing the force or causing it to dwindle away. It might be said that the force had not fallen off in numbers; but had, on the contrary, increased, and was increasing. That was no doubt true; but, nevertheless, subscriptions to the force were gradually declining; and the conse-
 269
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  wished to know, when the instructions relative to the Army Reserve and to the Militia Reserve would be issued; as it was very important that they should be issued before the Militia were called out.
 SIR JOHN HANMER : Well, it all comes to the same end. At all events, the right hon. Gentleman uttered the words before I did. I thought that the right hon. Gentleman, who is connected by representation with that part of England, was arguing the matter upon some particular and local ground, which I thought he ought not to have done; and for the reasons I have given, I told the counsel before the Committee what I did the next morning. That is the long and the short of it. I willingly withdraw any expression that may have hurt the right hon. Gentleman; still I may, as I must, think that he selected the wrong time for making a statement upon this subject.
 LORD STANLEY : I beg to give Notice that, on Monday next, on the Motion for going into Committee upon the Irish Church Establishment, I shall move an Amendment in the following words:—
 "That this House, while admitting that considerable modifications in the Temporalities of the United Church in Ireland may, after the pending inquiry, appear to be expedient, is of opinion that any proposition tending to the disestablishment or the disendowment of that Church ought to be reserved for the decision of a new Parliament."
 MR. GLADSTONE : In order that there may be no misapprehension upon this most important subject, I wish to know whether I am correct in understanding the noble Lord to say that he will make his Motion in the form of an Amendment in Committee; or, whether he intends to move it as an Amendment upon the Motion "That the Speaker do now leave the Chair," or, to speak more accurately, upon the Motion "That this House do immediately resolve itself into a Committee."
 LORD STANLEY : I shall move it as an Amendment upon the Motion, "That the House do immediately resolve itself into a Committee."
 MR. BAYLEY POTTER  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Privy Council, Whether he is willing to give a Return of all sums expended on
 357
 SIR JOHN HANMER : In the first place, I beg leave to express the satisfaction which it gives me—as it would to any other Gentleman—to make any amends to the right hon. Gentleman for anything in which he may have thought that I conducted myself to him with less courtesy than he deserved. It is only justice to myself to state that, the very moment I learnt that objection had been taken by him to my remarks, I sought him out and stated, what he has very correctly repeated, that, if there was anything in the form of what I said which was offensive or hurtful to his feelings, it would give me pleasure and satisfaction to withdraw it—
 354 355 356
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in reply, said, a general Road Bill for Scotland would affect so many complicated interests, and give rise to so much difference of feeling and opinion, that it was not his intention to introduce such a measure in the present Session.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  replied that he understood that the Fisheries Commission had recommended the works to be executed; and that, in all probability, those recommendations would shortly be carried out by the Board of Works.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Cambridge, Whether he intends to bring before the notice of this House a Petition presented by him, from nearly 7,000 inhabitants of the city and county of Bristol, praying the House to declare one of the Seats vacant, and for the issue of a new Writ?
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, Her Majesty's Government sincerely regret the continuance of this war between Brazil and her allies on the one side, and Paraguay on the other. We believe that it is even more useless and more purposeless than wars generally are; and we cannot but see that it is inflicting enormous injury upon all the countries engaged in it. At the same time
 360
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, a Question with regard to an Answer which he had given two or three days since. The right hon. Gentleman, in aswer to a Question as to, whether steps would be taken to remove a Regiment stationed at Mauritius during the prevalence of the epidemic at present raging in that island, was reported as having said that the removal was a question entirely for the decision of the Commander-in-Chief. He desired to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had so expressed himself, and whether he adopted those views?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : Not quite. The law was this:—That the owner of the ship was not liable, because the pilot was not his servant. The pilots themselves, by law, were liable.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that as he had had some experience in the discussion of these subjects, and had heard opinions on both sides, he would venture to
 384 385 386
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Sir, it certainly required some courage on the part of the hon. Gentleman to draw a comparison between the mode in which Press offences are treated in France and in this country. My belief is, that if any person had committed in France the offences which these gentlemen committed in Ireland their punishment would have been a very different one. Indeed, the publication of these newspapers, which has been going on for nearly three years in Dublin, would not have been permitted for a day in any other Country in the world. I will dismiss, then, all comparison between the punishment of Press offences in Ireland, and, not in France only, but in any other country. With regard to the particular question brought before the House, I shall content myself with mentioning the exact state of the law in this country and in Ireland, and it will be seen that a very substantial difference exists in the two cases. In England, by the Prisons Act of 1865, it is provided that misdemeanants may be divided into two classes, and the Judge may order them to be placed in the first class. In that case they are not to be deemed criminal offenders; and there are special rules for the treatment of prisoners under clause 102, schedule I. of that Act. Thus, a Judge in England has the power of saying whether a misdemeanant convicted by a jury shall be placed in the first class of misdemeanants or not; and it does not at all follow that if Mr. Pigott and Mr. Sullivan had been convicted in England of this precise offence, the Judge would have felt it his duly to place them in the first class of misdemeanants. If, therefore, the Judge had sentenced them as ordinary misdemeanants, they would have been subjected very much to the same rules as prevail in Ireland. By the Irish Prisons Act it is provided that misdemeanants shall be subject to rules made by the Board of Superintendence, submitted in Dublin to the municipal council for approval, and subsequently sanctioned by the Lord Lieutenant. I quite admit that these rules impose upon misdemeanants imprisonment of a somewhat severe character.
 442 "He shall be permitted to maintain himself, and to receive, at reasonable hours, any food, clothing, bedding, or other necessaries; but subject to such examination and other limitations, to be judged of by one or more visiting justices, as may be requisite for preventing too much extravagance or excess. He shall be permitted to procure for himself wine, not exceeding one pint, or malt liquor not exceeding one quart, in the course of every twenty-four hours." 443 "He shall not be required to do any work, to clean his apartment, or make his bed, or to perform any menial office; but his apartment shall be cleaned, his bed made, and his meals brought to him by an officer or servant of the prison." "He shall be allowed exercise in the open air, either alone, or with other prisoners of this division. In either case he shall be attended by an officer of the prison, if deemed necessary by the gaoler." "He shall, at his own expense, be permitted the use of books or newspapers which are not of an objectionable kind—to be judged of by one or more of the visiting justices." 444 "He shall be permitted to see his friends in his apartment on week days (excepting Christmas-day, Good Friday, and any public fast or thanksgiving day), from the hour of hall-past ten in the morning till twelve, and from hall-past one till four in the afternoon, in the winter six mouths, and till six o'clock in the summer; and some officer of the prison shall be present at such visits, unless his presence be dispensed with by the written order of a visiting justice." "He shall be permitted to write, send, or receive letters or other papers; but, before they are sent by such prisoner, or received by him from any visitor, or in any other manner, they shall be examined by the gaoler." 445
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I said the prisoners received the same treatment practically that they would have received in this country.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Yes.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : What I said was, that these prisoners were allowed to see newspapers which were not considered to be of an objectionable kind.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Have they ever asked for them?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, they had never asked to be together for a longer time.
 MR. KINNAIRD  thought the Governor General of India had shown himself oversensitive; but that the feeling upon his part was justified by expressions which had fallen in debate from the noble Viscount (Viscount Cranborne), who had himself formerly administered the affairs of India. If we had left the country a little more under the rule, of Native Princes, perhaps a greater success and contentment among the masses of the people would have been the result, and this, probably, was in the Governor General's mind. But looking to the security in the tenure of property, and the other benefits which had resulted from our rule, it might be said with truth that that rule has been on the whole beneficent in its effects, and history would show this.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE - LESLIE  objected to the monopoly which existed with regard to certain ferries.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether he purposes bringing in any general Road Bill for Scotland during the present Session?
 VISCOUNT CRANBORNE : I should not wish to prolong this debate by a single word if I had not a personal reason. But as the Viceroy of India has been good enough to spread throughout the length and breadth of India that I took occasion to doubt whether the system of British administration possessed, in the estimation of the Natives, any superiority over the method of government pursued in the independent States, I hope that I may be allowed to say in this place that I never said anything of the kind. I have no doubt the Viceroy drew his impression from an imperfect Report; but what I said was of a much more modest character. What I said was—
 "I am not denying that our mission in India is to reduce to order, to civilize and develop, the Native Governments we find there. But I demur to that wholesale condemnation of a system of government which would be utterly intolerable on our own soil, but which has grown up among the people subjected to it. It has a fitness and congeniality for them impossible for us adequately to realize: but which compensates them to an enormous degree for the material evils which its rudeness, in a great many cases, produces." 425
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the Returns would be laid on the table of the House shortly.
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Correspondence respecting British and Native systems of Government in India. It spoke well for the future prosperity of that country that our representative in India did not shrink from calling upon his officers to inquire into and report upon the popularity of our rule. Self-knowledge was as important in a State as it was in an individual; and we might consider ourselves under an obligation to Sir John Lawrence for giving us an opportunity of seeing ourselves, even if through a somewhat
 406 "Whether the system of British administration in India possessed, in the estimation of the Natives, any superiority over the method of government pursued in the independent States." 407 "One must have travelled in the Punjab to know what an immense benefit to humanity the English dominion in India is. I cannot witness the frightful evils of such a system without ardently desiring to see the English extending their frontier from the Sutlej to the Indus, and the Russians occupying the other bank." 408 409 410 Reports of the Course of Legislation during the official year of 411 412 413 414 "If there be any trees on the village site or within 100 yards round it, cut off every year those branches within 20 feet of the ground, and lop and prune away branches within 12 yards of the ground." ficus religiosa, the ficus Indica, 415 "That while your petitioners pay for the expenses of education, it is obviously a hardship that they should not be allowed to take any part in the management of the system, or exercise any control over the disbursement of the funds. It is very mortifying to them to find that they are not consulted on any points connected therewith, and that, notwithstanding their having to provide funds, they know nothing as to the manner and purposes in which those funds are expended." "That the admission of Natives to the executive management will make them conversant with the details of the education system, will show them the real motives the Government have in view in educating the people, and, having this knowledge, they will reject all those unfounded prejudices and suspicions, the existence of which is not unknown to the Government; that the higher classes will become warmly interested in the pursuit of knowledge, and will heartily co-operate in diffusing its benefits far and wide; that the Natives will become better acquainted with the liberal views and intentions of Government, and that eventually our schools and colleges will be filled with a much greater number of children of respectable families than are found in them at present—a result most important and beneficial to the Government and to the public." 416 417
 MR. AYRTON  said, that from time to time the House was startled by occurrences in India. But a few years back everybody was aroused by the statement that torture had been resorted to in the collection of revenue. Everybody denied the truth of the statement. The matter, however, was inquired into, and the fact was established. A year or two ago they learnt that hundreds of thousands of persons had died through the neglect of officials in India. His hon. Friend that night had brought under the notice of the House some circumstances connected with the administration of Indian affairs, which, though not so terrible in their immediate consequences, were yet exceedingly grave in their nature. The hon Member who had spoken last appeared hardly to understand the gravity of the question, which it was impossible to state without exciting a feeling of amazement that such things could occur, even in India. It was not simply that £2,000,000 had been lost to innocent depositors. A Bank had been established, after great consideration, by the Court of Directors of that day, with all the commercial knowledge and accurate business information at their command, and under conditions admirably
 431 432
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  wished to confine what he had to say to the single question, why South Kensington should not be absorbed in the British Museum? He did not mean by this that the contents of the former institution should be transferred to Bloomsbury; but, as the nation had committed itself to a great collection of objects of art and antiquity, he could not see how an arbitrary line could be maintained between the institutions, except at a disadvantage to both. No doubt there was a considerable difference between the characters of the objects collected, and the administration of the two museums was very different. But if they looked at the original character of the South Kensington Museum, and considered the manner in which it had grown up, the cause of the anomaly would become manifest. That institution came into existence as a consequence of the increased attention to technical excellence, of which the Exhibition of 1851 was the symbol; and it was originally only a scholastic collection of models, for the purposes of actual teaching and copying, and was accordingly placed under the care of the Board of Trade, until transferred to the new Department of Science and Art, as it may hereafter be to that of a future Secretary of State. The means, however, at its disposal were so ample, that it soon outstripped its merely utilitarian functions, and grew up into taking rank among the greatest and most complete collections of mediæval art in the world, In this same course, however,
 397 vertu, 398 fac similes fac similes
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory), in introducing this subject, always interesting to the House—with that effect which a Gentleman does who has a thorough knowledge of the matter in hand — said, he wished to know, whether the Government seriously intended to effect a separation of the collections in the British Museum? As for the inquiry whether the Government seriously intended to propose a separation of
 399 400 401 402 403 404 405
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he is aware of the intention of the Metropolitan Board of Works to open new Sewer Outfalls into Deptford Creek, in opposition to the remonstrances of the Officer of Health of the district, who considers the proposed works dangerous to the health of the neighbourhood; and, if such Outfall is not a contravention of the spirit of the Main Drainage Act?
 MR. REARDEN  said, that if a like outrage were offered to the editors of any of the London morning papers, not only the House, but the whole country would be roused. He exonerated the noble Earl and the Government of Ireland from any blame in carrying out the Act of Parliament; but the penal code of Ireland was alike cruel and mean. No such prison rules were to be found in the most despotic countries. He said, without fear of contradiction, there was nothing in the history of Poland which exceeded the cruel treatment of those two gentlemen. He strongly urged upon the House to make the laws of Ireland more humane.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government will alone, or in concert with the Government of the United States, have made or intend to make any endeavours to bring about a peaceable settlement of the war between Brazil and its allies and the State of Paraguay?
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Fish Passes on the weirs on the River Shannon, so long promised, are to be built by the Board of Works?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he was informed by the Board of Works that they had already a sewer outfall from the Southern High and Middle Level Sewers, which only acted in very heavy storms. They proposed to construct a storm overflow from the low level sewers that would only operate when there were very heavy floods, and the sewers had been completely washed clean. No decision would be arrived at upon the subject until after next Saturday. In the event of the outfalls being made, they would occasion no inconvenience, and would not in any way controvert the terms of the Act.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that it was intended to abolish the Southern Postal District as a separate district, one portion of it being transferred to the South-Western district, and the remainder to the South-Eastern, by which change a saving of £2,000 per annum would be effected in the management. In reply to the second part of the hon. Member's Question, he had to state that the proposed abolition would not lessen the number of deliveries in the district, except in the neighbourhood of Kennington, where the number of daily deliveries would be reduced from twelve to eight, and the number of collections from twelve to nine, as was the case in districts similarly situated such as Kensington and Brompton. In reply to the third part of the Question, he had to state that the inhabitants of that part of the district which was to be transferred
 359
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that the censure passed on the Governor General of India was undeserved. He (Mr. Fawcett) believed he had collected those papers from the best motives, and a more able collection of State papers had never been gathered together. Although a political opponent, he was grateful to the late Secretary of State for India for his admirable speech which had brought this Correspondence into existence. He (Mr. Fawcett) thought it could not be denied that these officials had, at all events, not hesitated to say boldly in what respects our administration in India could be improved. He knew not which to admire most — their wonderful ability or their extraordinary candour; and they urged with most consummate skill the views of the noble Viscount, and pointed out that the Governor General had somewhat misunderstood him. There could be no doubt that our rule had made India materially more prosperous; but it did not follow that the people were more happy. One need not necessarily follow the other. Our rule in India had greatly increased the prosperity of India in three distinct ways—first, it had undoubtedly given greater security to property; secondly, we had improved the means of locomotion; and, thirdly, which was the most important, we had made the cultivators of the soil more prosperous and contented; and we might say that giving security of tenure and proprietary rights in the soil had increased the loyalty of the people of India. It was said by our officials that the reason why the people of India were not happy was because our administration in that country was often unsympathizing and uncompromising; in fact, that our fault seemed to be much more of the head than the heart, and that India was suffering from an excess of centralization. The fact was too frequently ignored that the rules of political economy were not, like the laws of
 423 424
 MR. DYCE NICOL , in rising to ask the Secretary of State for India, What is the present position of the Bank of Bombay; and, whether he will institute any inquiry into the circumstances of the failure of the Old Bank of Bombay? said: I am glad to find that the right hon. Baronet has recently sent instructions to the Governor General of India to appoint a Commission of Inquiry into the circumstances of the failure of the old Bank of Bombay, and I beg to thank him for an act of justice to the unfortunate shareholders, which was denied to them by the authorities in India. I may mention that the Bombay Government were shareholders in this Bank; that they had the power of nomination of three of the directors; and that they exercised that privilege in the appointment to the Board of the highest officials in the financial Department of the Government. And without its being supposed that I cast imputations on anyone, I hope that I may be allowed to urge on the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State that this inquiry should be of a most searching character; and I press this the more earnestly, seeing that the shareholders are chiefly members of the civil and military services of Western India, who, on the faith that this Bank was a Government institution, invested their money in it under the same feeling of security that they did in a Government Loan or in Government Stock. At a meeting held at Bombay on the 13th of January for the winding up of the Bank, an appeal was made by the shareholders then present for information as to where their money had gone, and who were the persons for whom their property had been sacrificed. The official liquidator replied to this effect, as reported in  The Bombay Times "If the shareholders wanted to make an investigation as to where their money had gone and who was to blame, it was for themselves to make it and not him. If it was to be one of his duties as liquidator, he should decline to take another step in the liquidation, and should at once place his resignation in the bands of the shareholders. He would not be the leader or mover in such an inquiry as the one suggested." 427 "We have the honour to forward the documents in the annexed list, and to state that it illustrates the scandalous manner in which the Bank of Bombay was conducted at the period to which the correspondence alludes."
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he very much regretted that the consideration of this, which seemed to him to be a matter of grave importance, should have been embarrassed by the introduction into the discussion of the names of the two gentlemen who were now unfortunately suffering under the sentence of the Irish criminal law. His hon. Friend the Member for Cork, followed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilkenny, had put the case very plainly before the House, and the official knowledge of the hon. Member for Kilkenny had given a complete answer to the statements made by the noble Earl, on the part of the Irish Government, as to the regulations of the prisons and the punishments inflicted upon those who have fallen within the reach of this Act. The noble Earl indeed was himself obliged to admit that, as he found the case of the gentlemen alluded to was scarcely one which was contemplated by the Prisons Act, he felt called upon to assume a certain amount of responsibility, and to give instructions that the regulations should be to some considerable degree suspended. But Sir, the real question at issue, and to which the attention—and the earnest attention of the House—should be directed, was this:—Did the laws at present in force in England and in Ireland impose a degree of punishment more severe in the one country than in the other for the same offence? That was the true question, and one of grave moment. It was not sufficient
 448
 MR. BRADY  said, it had been clearly shown that the law of Ireland was very different from that of England, and much more harsh and severe as regarded the treatment of this class of misdemeanants. He was glad to hear the Attorney General for Ireland state that it was the intention of the Government to assimilate the law of Ireland in this respect to that of England. That was all the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire) desired, and he had therefore succeeded in his object. Had it not been for the humane recommendations of the medical men, the prisoners would be subjected to treatment far more severe than the Government intended.
 MR. CANDLISH : After the assurance of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Cave) that the matter would have his attention, and understanding that his feelings were
 388
 MR. CANDLISH : Sir, although the Question which I propose to bring before the notice of the House is not one to excite any very general interest, it is, nevertheless, a question of no small importance. It affects and stands in connection with all our sailors, numbering hundreds of thousands, and with the whole of our population travelling by sea, numbering millions. The registered tonnage of the United Kingdom in the year 1866 amounted to 5,692,010 tons; the value of our exports and imports for the same period was £534,000,000; and the entries and clearances at the Custom House, in our foreign trade, were about 31,000,000 tons, and in our coasting trade a similar amount. All those persons and all those interests—those sailors and travellers by sea; owners of vessels and owners of goods exported and imported—are all materially affected by the condition of our pilotage laws; and, if the House will favour me with its attention for a few minutes, I think I shall be able to show that it is expedient—nay, that it is pressingly necessary—that these laws should be altered and improved forthwith. At present there are about fifty or sixty pilotage authorities existing around the coast of the United Kingdom; that is to say, pilotage authorities, all of whom possess some amount, more or less, of legislative power; and the laws which are in operation in the several districts are very nearly as various as the districts are numerous. From perfectly free and voluntary pilotage—in other words, between places where the captains and owners of ships have it in their discretion either to accept or reject the pilot's services, to other places where it is pretty nearly altogether compulsory — all intermediate conditions prevail. This want of uniformity—this variety in the laws of the country governing the pilotage system around our coast — is productive of the greatest possible inconvenience, and the anomalies which result from this variation of law are most embarrassing to the Mercantile Marine and shipping generally of this country, but more particularly so within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Deptford Trinity House, which is the great authority on pilotage. That body governs the river Thames and all the approaches to it, north and south. It governs besides not a few of our outports; and the general principle which lies at the basis of its government
 362 "The following Ships, when not carrying Passengers, shall be exempted from compulsory pilotage in the London district and in the Trinity House Outport districts; that is to say—1. Ships employed in the Coasting Trade of the United Kingdom. 2. Ships of not more than 60 tons burthen. 3. Ships trading to Boulogne, or to any place in Europe north of Boulogne. 4. Ships from Guernsey, Jersey, Alderney, Sark, or Man, which are wholly laden with stone, being the produce of those islands. 5. Ships navigating within the limits of the port to which they belong. 6. Ships passing through the limits of any Pilotage district on their voyages between two places, both situate out of such limits, and not being bound to any place within such limits, nor anchoring therein." 363 "A man coming from a foreign port, with a little vessel of 60 or 70 tons—though perfectly competent to take a vessel of any size through the navigation of the Thames and the Downsmust, because she comes from a foreign port, if she is 61 tons, take a pilot; but if he was going upon the coasting trade in a vessel of 1,000 tons, though he was much more incompetent, he would be allowed to navigate the whole of the reaches of the Thames." 364 365 "No Owner or Master of any Ship shall be answerable to any person whatever for any loss or damage occasioned by the fault or incapacity of any qualified Pilot acting in charge of such Ship within any district where the employment of such Pilot is compulsory by law." 366 367 s. d., s.; s. d.; s. d. s, 368 "Do you recommend that the same principle of voluntary pilotage should apply to every port?—
 369 "Would you recommend it for such a port as Liverpool?—Most decidedly. I would have it just the same everywhere." "As regards the main question of voluntary or compulsory pilotage, your Committee, after weighing most attentively all the arguments upon the
 370 371
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he has received any information of the intended abolition of the Southern District Post Office; whether such abolition will not considerably lessen the number of deliveries over the district; and, whether the inhabitants have received any notice thereof; and, if so, when?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he only rose to observe, that if there was uncertainty in the law of Ireland, there was similar uncertainty in the law of England. Some years back he had called attention to the case of two gentlemen charged with the offence of fraud. They were sent to Newgate by an alderman, on remand, to be brought up for further examination, and were, therefore, innocent in the eye of the law, but they were, nevertheless, subjected to very severe treatment. The then Home Secretary, the right
 450
 MR. MAGUIRE , in rising to call attention to the punishment which Messrs. Sullivan and Pigott are undergoing in Richmond Bridewell for political writings in the public Press, and to the difference between the same nominal punishment for political writings in England and in Ireland, said, that neither the House nor the public were aware that there was a different punishment for the same offence in this country and in Ireland. Owing to the Operation of an Act which had passed quietly through the House with scarcely the knowledge of any Member, the punishment for seditious libel in the two countries was very different. While the old punishment of imprisonment with or without fine was retained in this country, the punishment in Ireland was the most aggravated and terrible that could be imagined. In this country when Cobbett was punished for a seditious libel, pronounced by the Judge to be "atrocious," he was simply detained in Newgate; he conducted his journal in prison, was freely visited by his family, managed his farm, and attended to his private affairs. Mr. Leigh Hunt also conducted his journal while suffering imprisonment. At various times down to 1856 the treatment of persons punished for seditious libel in Ireland was similar; but in that year a Bill was introduced by the right hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman), then Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant, called the "Prison Bill, Ireland," which effected a very great change. That Bill was very much misunderstood. On the first reading there was no discussion; and on the second the right hon. Gentleman only said that its object was merely to transfer the superintending power over the gaols from the Court of Queen's Bench to the Executive, thus following the precedents established in the case of England and Scotland. Irish Members, therefore, understood that the Bill was to hand over the prisons to new bodies, over which the Lord Lieutenant would have control, and those bodies were to be Boards of Superintendence, who were to make regulations which were to have the force of law the moment they were sanctioned by the Lord Lieutenant. Now, in England they had several classifications among the prisoners. In Ireland, though the law was nominally the same,
 440 Courrier Francais 441 ad misericordiam.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, it was not his intention to follow the noble Lord the Member for Taunton (Lord William Hay) in his very discursive speech. His object
 418 419 "sua si bona norint" 420 The Times, 421 "I am bound to say that the people generally believe, however erroneous that belief in my opinion may be, that they would be much happier under a Native ruler than they are under the present régime. This feeling has been increasing in intensity of late years." "But the people still regard us as exacting and unsympathizing masters." "The great mass of the people sigh for the return of their old forms and institutions, which,
 422
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  wished to state in reference to the trial of Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Pigott, that it was conducted before two of the most eminent Judges in Ireland, both of whom were Members of that House when the Act of Parliament, which was the foundation of the prosecution, was passed, and no doubt they were perfectly familiar with that Act, and the prison rules which were in force in Ireland. In sentencing one of the accused to six months', and the other to twelve months' imprisonment without imposing a fine, they had a due regard to the stringency of the prison discipline. It was quite true that they were tried in the county of Dublin; but that step had been taken at the pressing instance of the counsel for the prisoner, and with the concurrence of the Attorney General. He had no hesitation in saying that these men were tried for offences of deeper moral guilt and of a more mischievous character than had been committed by many who had been sentenced and were now under punishment for treason-felony. One of them was convicted of a series of fourteen seditious libels spread over a period of twelve months; and the other of seven seditious libels spread over a considerable time, stirring up the people of Ireland to join the Fenian conspiracy. He therefore thought that the punishment, having regard to all the circumstances, was a light one. He admitted that there was a difference between
 449
 MR. SINCLAIR AYTOUN  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether the Regulations of that Board with regard to the overloading of Passenger Steamers, and other Regulations intended to secure the safety of Passengers, do not at present remain un-enforced; and, whether he would have any objection to bring in a short Act to provide for the enforcement of such Regulations?
 MR. GRAVES  said, it appeared to him that the hon. Member had dwelt too much upon the mere carrying out of what had been called the Free Trade system in this matter. He had overlooked that which lay at the very bottom of the subject—namely, the question of liability. The hon. Member only regarded the point as one of supply and demand. But he (Mr. Graves) thought that the question went very much beyond that. They had, first of all to decide, whether they would have an irresponsible supply of pilots, free from all obligations but those dictated by their own interests, or whether they would have them subject to control; because he held it to be quite inconsistent with a voluntary system to uphold the present system of stringent regulations; he believed these to be necessary to the safety of life and property. At present, in consequence of the compulsory powers which existed, they had a most perfect system of control. For instance, at Liverpool, a certain number of pilots were always ready for duty at all times of the year, whether the weather was fine or bad; and the master of a ship running up in a gale of wind, can be sure of meeting with four points on the coast where pilots are always to be met with; so that if the master misses one pilot, he is sure to meet with another, and this is in consequence of the control exercised over them. The precise proportion of pilots required by the wants of the port to be afloat and ashore was determined. Again, they were prevented from making salvage claims—from making any claim whatever except subject to the supervision of the Board, and were not allowed to own shares in tug steamers. A large question, further, must also arise as to superannuation claims—for there were certain rights of this character to which they were entitled, and which would have to be considered. Such advantages as these would have to be abandoned for a voluntary system. The hon. Member asked—what remedy could be suggested for the anomalies in the present system which he had pointed out, except that which he had brought forward? He (Mr. Graves') would suggest that a remedy lay, not so much in a uniform system of compulsion or of freedom, as in defining more accurately the question of liability. At present it was most undefined. When the pilot came on board of a ship, the
 387
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Virtually, the hon. and learned Gentleman agreed with him that, in this case, there was practically no remedy. A great wrong might be committed upon an industrious class of our fellow-citizens, and yet they would be left in the position of not having any remedy. He wanted any hon. Member to point out any other remedy than the abolition of compulsory pilotage. It would, no doubt, be most unjust to put State pilots on board a vessel and then to make the owners responsible in the event of the pilots not being able to handle the vessel as well as those who were more regularly in charge of her. He thought we ought to require from the Government some undertaking that this question would really be seriously considered with a view to a settlement. He did not believe that the difficulties after all would be so very great. He thought persons were becoming more and more convinced of the necessity—the absolute necessity—of some radical change in our pilotage system. If they looked to
 383
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that as he had been referred to be would say a few words upon the subject of the Motion. He was glad to hear from his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Board of Trade that the opinion was growing in favour of the voluntary system of pilotage. He hoped it would grow faster than it had hitherto done, because he entirely admitted the truth of what had been stated, that when an attempt was made to deal with the question great difficulties had to be encountered, great interest was taken in the question in the House, and great political interest was exercised in defending the pilotage system. This pilotage system had always been, more or less, a party political question, he was sorry to say; and whenever an attempt had been made to place the pilotage law on a sound and rational footing, the parties making these efforts had been met with a kind of semi-political opposition. However, they had got now, seeing the unsatisfactory state of the law with regard to collision, to this position—that something must be done. His hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) said that the great shipowners were in favour of compulsory pilotage. No wonder that they were in favour of compulsory pilotage. A great shipowner would in any case employ a pilot. There was no additional expense put upon him in compelling him to employ a pilot; but if by that compulsory law to employ a pilot you gave with it an indemnity for all damages his ship might do while in charge of such pilot, and a freedom from all liability, of course he was in favour of compulsory pilotage. But if his hon. Friend had consulted the owners of small ships, who were not liable to compulsory pilotage, and who now were deprived of all remedy for injuries which
 382
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he had listened with great interest, but with still greater surprise, to the speech of the hon. Member for Sunderland. He laid down two propositions, which he asked the House to affirm—first, "that, in the opinion of this House, measures ought to be taken for early abolition of compulsory pilotage;" and, secondly, that measures should also be taken "for requiring pilotage authorities to examine and licence all competent persons applying to them for the purpose of qualifying to act as pilots." To his surprise, the hon. Gentleman stated that he founded these propositions upon the Report of the Committee of 1860. He (Mr. Horsfall) had the honour of being a Member of that Committee, under the presidency of his right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson). He attended every meeting of the Committee, and he certainly was considerably surprised to hear that statement. But the hon. Gentleman himself answered his own propositions, and showed clearly that they were not in accordance with the Report of the Committee, because he read a portion of that Report which distinctly stated on the proposition that there should be one system of voluntary pilotage—
 "As regards the main question of voluntary or compulsory pilotage, your Committee, after weighing most attentively all the arguments upon the subject, have arrived at the conclusion that a system of voluntary pilotage might be safely established in most parts of the Empire." versus 379
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to make one more effort to induce the Government to remedy what was a great discredit to this country—the present condition of the British Museum. In proportion, as the collections in that institution accumulated, and in proportion also to the intelligence and ability of those who had charge of it, must be the regret which was felt to see how vain and futile were their efforts to render this collection available, either for the study of scientific men, or for the amusement and instruction of general visitors. It was impossible, by any verbal description, to give an idea of the present state of the collection; the only way was for hon. Members to go and judge for themselves. If they examined the Collection of Natural History upstairs, they would find the specimens so closely packed together that it was impossible to distinguish the hoofs and the horns, the heads and the tails which belonged to the different animals; and the gentlemen connected with that department had not the means of prosecuting their scientific studies. If they went downstairs to the room where the Insects were deposited, they would find that they had descended at once into the realms of Nox and Erebus, and of eternal night. A writer in  The Times 389 390 "We are of opinion that it is of fundamental importance to the progress of the Natural Sciences in this country, that the administration of the National Natural History Collections should be separated from that of the Library and Art Collections, and placed under one Officer, who should be immediately responsible to one of the Queen's Ministers. "We regard the exact locality of the National Museum of Natural History as a question of comparatively minor importance, provided that it be conveniently accessible and within the Metropolitan district." 391 ex officio ex officio 392 ex officios, en masse 393 394 ex officio 395 396
 MR. GREGORY  wished to say, in explanation, thad he had never represented the principal librarian as "a despot." What he had said was, that it was impossible that any one man could be found capable of understanding and managing three great departments, such as the library, the natural history, and the antiquities.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Candlish). The question had been discussed for a long time in this country; and the point he held to be simply and absolutely this:—Whether a man should be at liberty to do as he liked with his own property, or whether in the disposition and management of it he should be subject to the control, supervision, and direction of the State. The meaning of the system of compulsory pilotage was just this:—That the State found for you a certain number of men to do something for you which you may or may not want them to do. Their remuneration is fixed; you must pay it to them whether you really require their assistance or not. The system, no doubt, had its origin in the days when paternal Governments undertook the task of doing for their subjects what their subjects could do much better for themselves. This system was a relic of the old time—a remnant of a plan of administration of which they had got rid—and in this, as in all other matters, he thought the best and soundest policy was the policy of Free Trade. A man who owned a ship was just in the same position as a man who owned a house, or any other form of property. The vessel, perhaps, was bringing a valuable cargo up the Thames. He had taken care to select a thoroughly good captain whom he could trust, and to whom he was
 377 378
 MR. POWELL : Sir, having carefully considered, so far as I am able to do, the circumstances of this case; and having the fullest confidence that the hon. Member referred to in the Question will act under a due sense of his heavy responsibility to wards the constituency which returned him to Parliament, under the full assurance that he was and would continue to be capable of sitting and voting in this House, I do not propose to ask the House to refer the subject-matter of this petition to a Committee; but I hope I may be allowed to add, by way of a more complete answer to this Question, this remark — that if an hon. Member who is proved to be a bankrupt does sit and vote in the House of Commons, then a state of affairs has arisen which is clearly provided for by the Statutes of the Realm and the established usage of Parliament.
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  endorsed the opinion of the hon. Member who had last spoken as to the importance of the questions arising out of the failure of the Bombay Bank. The essential features of the case were these: — A capital of £2,000,000 had been dissipated, and in consequence hundreds, perhaps thousands, of most deserving persons had been reduced to beggary, And more than this, the sufferers were for the most part retired officers and civil servants of India, who had been induced to invest the savings of years in the Bank of Bombay, on the credit of its being a  quasi 428 débris "And in case of difference of opinion on any question decided at any meeting the Secretary of State may require that his opinion and the reasons for the same be entered in the Minutes of the proceedings, and any member of the Council who may have been present at the meting may require that his opinion and any reasons for the same that he may have stated at the meeting be entered in like manner." 429 The Times "Sir Stafford Northcote said there was only one such Minute recorded under the provisions of the 23rd section of the Government of India Act, and, inasmuch as it referred to questions having relation to the personal character of individuals about to form the subject of judicial inquiry, he did not think it would be right to consent to its production." 430
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, that at all events he understood the noble Earl to say that in Oxford gaol first class misdemeanants could supply themselves with any kind of provisions they pleased.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, that as a member of the Board of Superintendence of the Richmond Bridewell, he was much surprised at the statement of the noble Earl—that the prisons in the two countries were governed by the same laws.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  went on to say that, according to the rules, they were to be in separate cells, and the Board found that they could not put them into rooms with fire-places without violating the Act under which the rules were framed. They thought they might confine them in cells in one of the short corridors, and allow them to walk in the corridor, which was properly secured; but they found that they could not do this. These gentlemen had been convicted, not of treason or treason-felony, but simply of seditious libel. They were taken to a common lavatory by ring of bell at six or seven o'clock in the morning, and after performing their ablutions they were allowed to converse together for ten or fifteen minutes, and then they were locked up in separate cells. What was
 447
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he had visited the prison only the other day, and therefore he was speaking from his own knowledge on the subject. It was true that for three or four days they were allowed to see  The Illustrated News,
 SIR JOHN GRAY  proceeded to say, that they were not allowed to see  The Times, Illustrated London News, 446 Standard Evening Mail.
 SIR JOHN GRAY : Well, this privilege was denied to Messrs. Pigott and Sullivan, who were merely allowed the prison diet; for which, however, they paid at the end of every week, the object being to avoid the labour which they would otherwise have to perform. They were not permitted any choice in regard to the diet, which was regulated by the medical officer of the prison. It was paid for from prison funds, and they afterwards re-paid the amount. The noble Earl said that in Oxford gaol first class misdemeanants were allowed to have newspapers, but that was not the case with the gentlemen who are in Richmond Bridewell.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the report of the portion of the Answer referred to by the hon. Gentleman was not accurate. What he (Sir John Pakington) had stated was that the Commander-in-Chief had sent out orders for a very strict inquiry into the circumstances under which the regiment had been permitted to land, considering the state of the health of the island. But, with reference to the subject more particularly referred to by the hon. Gentleman, he stated that he himself had sent out orders last year, giving full power and discretion to the Officer in command to remove the troops whenever in his judgment the health of the Island should render such a step advisable, and to prevent mistakes he had repeated those orders and again sent them out.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, the Question of the hon. Member was a very general one, and he was not aware whether it was intended to apply to any particular case. The only answer he could give to the inquiry was that the power of determining any such case as that put by the hon. Member would rest entirely with the Commander-in-Chief.
 MR. PEASE  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down read at some length various opinions which were expressed in 1860 on the question of compulsory pilotage; but, without exception, the opinions thus given were those of large shipowners on the Thames, who by this compulsory
 380 381
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he also desired information, upon this subject.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Sir, the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) has slated strongly, but, speaking with some qualification, I am bound to say, not too strongly, the case of the failure of the Bombay Bank. I say with some qualification, because I feel it necessary to reserve my opinion on the history of a transaction which is at present the subject of inquiry. I quite agree with him that the charges which have been made against the Legislature, and several high officials of Bombay, are charges which it would be discreditable and disgraceful for us to pass over without a full inquiry. An inquiry has been ordered; and I have received a communication from the Government of India, stating that, in accordance with my directions that they should issue a Commission, they propose one armed with powers of obtaining evidence compulsorily, and composed of two members nominated by the Governor General and one by the Government of Bombay. [Mr. AYRTON here intimated disapproval.] The hon. Gentleman cannot think it right that the inquiry should be one-sided. The inquiry should surely be conducted by those who have a perfect knowledge of the case, and the Commissioners will inquire thoroughly into all the allegations which have been made. I wish, however, to remark that when Members speak of the liability of the Government in a matter of this kind, they must mean the liability of the taxpayers of India; and it will be a question for serious consideration whether any case can be made out justifying the imposition of a burden upon them for the purpose of replacing the funds lost through the failure of the Bank. I have heard a good deal said on both sides with regard to
 433 434 435 436 437 438
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, the question of the hon. Member did not state the case quite accurately. Before a steamer could legally carry passengers she must be provided with certain equipments, which were, however, not required by regulations of the Board of Trade, but by the Merchant Shipping Act of 1854. On a vessel being so provided, a surveyor appointed by the Board of Trade gave a declaration that the provisions of the law were complied with, and that the hull, equipments, and machinery were sufficient for the service and in good condition. As regarded passengers, the law provided that the Board of Trade certificate should contain a statement of the number of passengers the ship was fit to carry. The power of the Board of Trade ended there. The statute required that this certificate should be placed in a conspicuous place on board, and imposed heavy penalties if the number of passengers was exceeded; but no power was given to the Board of Trade to prosecute, and no funds were provided. As a matter of policy, he did not think that a Department like the Board of Trade should undertake these duties, which more properly belonged to the police; and practically it would be impossible for them to have sufficient officers to count the passengers and to watch every case. Any persons aggrieved by overcrowding, or any local body who might think that the safety of the passengers was neglected, could take steps to proceed for the penalties incurred. This had been done in many instances. Where the law was not enforced in this and many similar cases, it was owing to supineness on the part of those who were most interested in enforcing it. The penalties went to the Crown, and not to the informer, which might account for this supineness. The Government were considering whether any alteration in this respect might be introduced into the Merchant Shipping Bill, but he did not think it advisable to introduce such a Bill as the hon. Member recommended.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : My statement with regard to amalgamation followed what I said with regard to this scheme.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : The subject which the hon. Gentleman has brought before the House with much ability is one that is full of difficulty; and the difficulty is enormously increased by this circumstance, that although the House might agree upon such general principles as the hon. Gentleman has indicated — namely, that all trades should be thrown open, and that the days of close guilds and protected interests have entirely gone by, and that demand will always regulate supply; yet we are met at once by two impediments when we attempt to carry these principles into active legislation. The first, that public opinion on this point has not gone all the length the hon. Member supposes. He referred, in the course of his speech, to the case of trade unions. Now, these unions have been established and have instituted certain regulations for the protection of those engaged in trade. Well, I imagine that the opinions out of which such associations spring are very strongly implanted in the minds of large numbers of persons; and one of these opinions is that, in order to make an industry profitable, it is necessary to limit the number of those who practise it. The other difficulty s, that, even where certain general principles are admitted, yet people will be found to argue that, in their particular localities, exceptional circumstances exist which prevent the practical application of these principles. For example, I suppose that, in spite of the evidence of Admiral Sullivan, the hon. Members for Liverpool will declare that it is quite impossible to carry out the system of voluntary pilotage in the port of Liverpool; that under the peculiar circumstances
 372 373 374 375 376
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said: It is with great regret that I feel myself obliged, for the first time since I have had a seat in this House, to intrude myself on the House with regard to a personal matter. It will be in the recollection of many hon. Members that on Tuesday last I made a few remarks on the amalgamation of railways, in discussing the Resolutions of the Chairman of Committees with reference to competition. No exception was taken to those remarks by any Member of the House; but it has been reported to me that, on the following morning, the hon. Baronet the Member for the Flint boroughs (Sir John Hanmer), who is Chairman of the Committee on a group of Railway Bills, among which is the Amalgamation Bill of the Brighton and other railways, publicly made use of the following expressions in the Committee-room:—
 "A matter has happened in the House which I think extremely improper. It happened at five o'clock, when the House was dead sick of private business, and therefore, although it was my business to answer the Vice President of the Board of Trade, I did not do so. The Vice President of the Board of Trade, in my opinion, gave a most improper expression of opinion upon the subject of a question now pending before this Committee, which he had no business to do, even if he had been a private Member, still less an official Member. Speaking on the question of competition, he expressed his opinion against the monopoly of railways. This was a question which was legitimately before the House; but he said there was another monopoly—that is to say, these amalgamations—and he said there was a gigantic scheme. His observations went to show that it was a very prejudicial thing, that it was now pending—and so on. He had no business to express that opinion." 352 353 "This year the number of Bills was only fifteen, but among them was a gigantic scheme affecting a large district in the South of England."
 SIR THOMAS LLOYD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the authorities of the Horse Guards and War Office consider the refusal by a minor to pay the full amount of a loan, contracted at an extravagant rate of interest during his minority, a sufficient reason for refusing a Commission in the Army?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that his attention had not been called to the circumstances of this case until he saw the Notice of the boa. Member on the Paper. He had made inquiries upon the subject, and he had been furnished with a Report from the Constabulary Officer, of which the following was an abstract:—
 "On the day of Mackay's trial for murder much excitement prevailed, and a report was generally circulated that, in the event of conviction, an attempt would be made to rescue, and therefore orders were given that all suspicious persons should be excluded from the Court. The actions of three females while in Court attracted the attention of the police, and roused suspicion, as it was supposed that they might have revolvers or some explosive substance concealed about them. Accordingly, when the Court adjourned, they were brought to the housekeeper's room, where they were searched by the female searcher. Two submitted to the search; the other refused, and she was not searched. The room to which they were taken had no blind to the window; but no person could see into it, as it was only overlooked by the windows of the Judge's and Jury's room, all of whom had left the Court, which was shut up at the time."
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that, in consequence of a decision in the Court of Queen's Bench, a number of stakes and big nets had been erected in the Shannon and other rivers in Ireland; and it was the intention of the Fishery Commissioners to make inquiries into the matter, and until their Report was made it would not be desirable to legislate upon the subject.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that he would remind the hon. and gallant Gentleman that Mr. Johnston might, if he had pleased, have left the gaol on the 10th of March last, for his sentence was commuted by the Lord Lieutenant on condition that he should cuter into his own recognizances. This he refused to do, and he therefore still remained in gaol. He had every reason to believe that the ordinary regulations of the gaol had been considerably relaxed in Mr. Johnston's favour; but, although it was not his province to interfere with these matters, he had written to the Governor to intimate that no objection would be offered on the part of the Government to the relaxation of the rules of the gaol, provided that relaxation were made in accordance with the wishes and views expressed by the Board of Superintendence.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I beg to move that the Acts relating to the Established Church in Ireland be read.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  moved that the 5th Article of the Act of Union be read.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I now rise, Sir, to move that this House will immediately resolve itself into a Committee to consider the said Acts—that is to say, the Acts relating to the Established Church in Ireland; and I cannot for a moment regret that the Gentlemen who have just interposed Motions, accepted as matter of course by the House, should, by the passages they have caused to be read from the existing laws of this country, have reminded us upon how solemn a duty we are now about to enter. I likewise construe those Motions as implying that there are in this House men who intend to meet the plain, the broad, and intelligible proposition which I ask the House to accept by other propositions equally plain, broad, and intelligible, and that the great controversy—the solemn controversy, for such it is—in which we are about to engage, is not to be degraded
 471 472 473 argumentum ad hominem. 474 475 476 477 "The Establishment was Papal, but anti-Irish from 1172 to 1560, and from 1560 to 1868 it was anti-Papal and anti-Irish too." 478 Popery Laws "Either that a 'religion not very remote from the Protestant' prevailed in Ireland before the English came there"— "That Papal authority was much lower in Ireland than in other countries." "It was the working of English power and influence, and the English immigration into Ireland, which first thoroughly Unit the Church of that country into organic communion and subjection to the Church of Rome." "No country, I believe, since the world began, has suffered so much on account of religion; or has been so variously harassed by the same persons, both for Popery and for Protestantism." 479 peculium "By many he know it would be contended that the religion professed by the majority of the privileges." "No man could say that in the actual state of things, while Ireland remained a separate kingdom, full concessions could be made to the Catholics without endangering the State, and shaking the constitution of Ireland to its centre." 480 481 History of the Rebellion in Ireland, 482 483 "From what I have observed it was pride, arrogance, and a spirit of domination, and not a bigoted spirit of religion that has caused and kept up these oppressive statutes. I am sure I have known those who have oppressed Papists in their civil rights exceedingly indulgent to them in their religious ceremonies, and who really wished them to continue Catholics in order to furnish pretences for oppression. These persons never saw a man (by converting) escape out of their power but with grudging and regret." 484 485 486 status quo, 487 488 Laughter. 489 490 "The weakness of England made the strength of Ireland; for Ireland was saved when America was lost. When England conquered Ireland was coerced; when she was defeated, Ireland was relieved." 491 492 "I do not deny that we must persevere in legislation in the direction in which we have been engaged for some time, and which has already in a certain measure produced most satisfactory results. What I pleaded for was this, that we should provide for the exigencies of the day, for that is an absolute duty which cannot be deferred." 493 494 Hamlet, "We do it wrong, being so majestical, To offer it the show of violence; For it is, as the air, invulnerable, And our vain blows malicious mockery." "We who did our lineage high Draw from beyond the starry sky, Are yet upon the other side To earth and to its dust allied." "Venit summa dies et ineluctable fatum." 495
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I rise to move the Amendment of which I have given notice; and I can assure the House that I do so with a full sense of the gravity of the crisis which is impending, and with a desire quite as anxious as that of the right hon. Gentleman can be, that no trick, no contrivance, no ambiguity, shall interfere with the straightforward course of this debate, and that the ideas and intentions of Her Majesty's Government in objecting to the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman shall not be misconstrued or misunderstood, either here or out of doors. And I say that the more earnestly, because I think I see already that in the debate upon which we are about to enter, long as it inevitably must be, and impassioned as it probably will be—a debate in which party feeling must necessarily run high, and party prejudices be to some extent appealed to—every attempt will be made—I had almost said every art will be employed—to place upon a false issue the question we have to decide. Now, Sir, what are these Resolutions that are to be moved by the right hon. Gentleman? They have been repeatedly described out-of-doors, and I do not doubt we shall hear them described in this House, as Resolutions directly implying and involving the disendowment of the Irish Church. No doubt the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was calculated to impress that idea upon us. But when I look to the Resolutions, I find in them nothing of the kind. I they asserted the principle of disendowment, we should at least know not only what we are discussing, but, which is a different thing, what it is upon which we are favoured with any such information. Let us examine these Resolutions and see what principles they really do involve; for I need not remind the House that it is not upon the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, but upon the Resolutions as they stand upon the Paper, that the Vote of this House is to be taken. My first objection, therefore, is that we are called upon to say
 496 497 498 499 500
 MR. GLADSTONE : That there may be no misunderstanding, I would explain, if the noble Lord will permit me, that what I disclaimed was final legislation. What I recommended, and what would be required by the spirit of the second and third Resolutions would be legislation to prevent the growth of new interests.
 LORD STANLEY : That is not legislation in the sense I mean. You do not intend to ask us to legislate so as to dispose of the question. But if the right hon. Gentleman had given me a different answer my case would have been just as strong, because the reply would obviously
 501 502 "If the question is postponed till next year, the Tory party, whether forming a majority or a strong minority in the new House of Commons, may come from their elections so invigorated by hustings' speeches, and so intoxicated by the old Tory policy of Lord Eldon, as to refuse to their Leaders any reduction of the Irish Church Establishment." 503 504 505 506 status 507
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the decision which was asked for might be regarded in two lights: either as the decision of the House, or as the decision of the two great parties of which it was composed. It might well be that the House should decide that it would not now express an opinion on the policy suggested, while at the same time the two parties should clearly disclose each its separate view. If the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) intended only to force each side of the House to express itself clearly upon the great question of the day, and so prepare the way for a fair trial at the next Election, he would not object; but he suggested the right hon. Gentleman was not justified in asking for a decision of the House as such. He personally would not shrink from expressing a very strong opinion on the policy indicated; but he would first endeavour to show that the House ought not to give a decision at present, but should rather support the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley). That Amendment only amounted to this, that
 545 Will. mandamus 546 "Will you to the utmost of your power," the Sovereign was asked, "maintain the laws of God, the true profession of the Gospel, and the Protestant reformed religion established by the law?" "And will you preserve unto the bishops and clergy of this realm and to the Churches"— "committed to their charge all such rights and privileges as by law do or shall appertain unto them or any of them?" 547 548 "That it be the 5th Article of Union that the Churches of England and Ireland, as now by law established, be united into 'one Protestant Episcopal Church,' to be called 'the United Church of England and Ireland,' and that the doctrine, worship, discipline, and Government of the said United Church shall be and shall remain in full force for ever, as the same are now by law established for the Church of England; and that the continuance and preservation of the said 'United Church' as 'the Established Church of England and Ireland' shall be deemed and taken to be an essential and fundamental part of the Union; and
 549 "That the said Acts, with the Establishment in the said Acts contained, be and shall for ever be held and adjudged to be and observed as fundamental and essential conditions of the said Union, and shall in all times coming be taken to be, and are hereby declared to be, essential and fundamental parts of the said Articles and Union." "We have granted to God, and by this our present charter have confirmed, for us and our heirs for ever, that the Church of England shall be free, and shall have all her whole rights and liberties inviolable." "And whereas the Protestant Episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, disciline, and government thereof, and likewise the Protestant Presbyterian Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, are by the respective Acts of Union of England and Scotland, and of Great Britain and Ireland, established permanently and inviolably, &c." 550 551
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  remarked, that, as the right hon. Gentleman
 559
 LORD OTHO FITZGERALD  said, after the remarks of his noble Friend, he would not press the matter to a division. But he hoped the right hon. Baronet would take the question into consideration, otherwise he would certainly move the Amendment next year.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he assented to the introduction of Amendments similar to that made in the Mutiny Bill, and if the hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway) were not in his place to move the omission of the words in reference to corporal punishment, he (Lord Henry Lennox) would move the Amendment for him.
 MR. OTWAY  moved the following Amendments, which were  agreed to: Clause 27, line 30, leave out from "any" to "any marine to corporal punishment," in lines 39 and 40, inclusive, and insert "no court martial shall for any offence whatever committed in time of peace, within the Queen's dominions, have power to sentence any marine to corporal punishment." Lines 44 and 45, leave out "disgraceful conduct or any breach of the Articles of War."
 MR. O'NEILL  said, he did not know why the Irish Church should be subject to such severe attacks as had lately been directed against her from various quarters. Somewhat similar attacks were made in 1834, but she survived those attacks; she remained the Established Church of the country, notwithstanding them. Had her position changed so as to make her justly the subject of severe attack now? Her position had certainly changed since 1834; but he would tell the House in what manner. From 1834 to 1861 the population of Ireland had decreased; but relatively the Roman Catholics had decreased and the Protestants had increased; and, of all the Protestant denominations in Ireland, the Established Church had increased the most. During the same period the Irish Church had been dealt with severely by legislation. In 1838, one-fourth of her tithes had been given to the landlords; and in 1854, she lost £12,500, ministers' money. She had lost over £240,000 since 1834. But while the Church had been losing a portion of her revenues, she had increased in efficiency. Since 1826, the number of her clergy had increased by 195, of her churches by 387, and of her glebe-houses by 210. Then as to the missionary character of the Church. She had increased her labours among the Roman Catholic population. The late Bishop of Tuam had furnished statistics to show how the number of congregations and that of churches had increased in the district of West Connaught within the last twenty-five years. During that time the number of churches there had risen from 7 to 27, that of congregations from 13 to 57, and of clergy from 11 to 35; and, in a very interesting letter to  The Times, 514 "who desires its destruction? Not, surely, the great mass of the people belonging to the Roman Catholic communion—shopkeepers, small farmers, and labourers—who live in peace and harmony with their Protestant neighbours, and who recognize the Church clergyman, if not as their pastor, at least as their friend and neighbour, living among them, and expending at home, not only his Church income, but usually more or less of his private income also—ever ready to help them all with advice and assistance." s. 515 "The continuance and preservation of the said United Church as the Established Church of England and Ireland shall be deemed and taken to be an essential and fundamental part of the Union." "For the full and permanent security of the Establishments in Church and State; for the maintenance of the Reformed Religion, established by Law, and of the rights and privileges of the Bishops and of the Clergy of this Realm, and of the Churches committed to their charge." "The Act of Union in its most fundamental article would have to be repealed, much of the Act of Settlement cancelled, and the spirit of the Roman Catholic Emancipation Act of 1829 openly violated: the Constitution will have received the most violent shock it has sustained since the Reformation. Let every English citizen count the cost before he embarks on this perilous crusade." 516
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to call attention to an Amendment which had been made in Committee by striking out of the Preamble the words "and the preservation of the balance of power in Europe." That Amendment was suggested by the hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway), who was carried away by his enthusiasm at carrying the abolition of corporal punishment, and it was agreed to without a division. There was, at the time, a large gathering on the Opposition Benches, but the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) was absent—busied, he presumed—in preparing the thunder for to-night's debate. Now, the words they struck out were of long standing. In the Preamble to the Act of 1689 the words were—
 "Whereas it is judged necessary that during this time of danger several of the forces now on foot should be continued and others raised for the safety of the Kingdom, for the proper defence of the Protestant religion, and," he was sorry to add, "for the reducing of Ireland." "For the safety of this Kingdom, for the common defence of the Protestant religion, and for the preservation of the liberties of Europe." Geo. "For the guard of His Majesty's Royal person, for the safety of this Kingdom, and the suppressing of the present rebellion." "That this army is raised for the safety of this Kingdom, the defence of the possessions of the Crown of Great Britain, and the preservation of the balance of power in Europe." 558
 MR. COWPER  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether arrangements are in progress at Burlington House to enable the Royal Academy to vacate, in the early part of next year, the galleries occupied by them in Trafalgar Square?
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Report of the Commission on False Weights and Measures, referred to by him at the close of last Session, is likely to be issued, and what prospect there is of his being able to introduce a Bill upon the subject this Session?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  replied, that by the terms of the lease to the Royal Academy the Government reserved to themselves the use of Burlington House until Christmas, 1869. Considerable difficulties had arisen with regard to the alleged interference with the lights of the Albany, which had delayed the prosecution of the
 468
 VISCOUNT CRANBORNE : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the
 533 534 "That this House, while admitting that considerable modifications in the temporalities of the United Church in Ireland may, after the pending inquiry, appear to be expedient." 535 "That any proposition tending to the disestablishment or disendowment of that Church ought to be reserved for the decision of a new Parliament." répertoire 536 "We have heard something lately of the crisis in Ireland. In my opinion the crisis of England is rather at hand; for the purpose is now avowed, and that by a powerful party, of destroying that sacred union between Church and State which has hitherto been the chief means of our civilization, and is the only security for our religious liberty." 537 "That this House, while admitting that considerable modifications in the temporalities of the United Church in Ireland may, after the pending inquiry, appear to be expedient, is of opinion that any proposition tending to the disestablishment or disendowment of that Church ought to be reserved for the decision of a new Parliament." "That this House, while recognizing the necessity of a just and moderate measure of Reform, is further of opinion, &c., and that the Reform Bill ought to be deferred till the next year." 538 539 540 541
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he regretted that a question of such vital importance, and involving so many serious difficulties, should be made a party question. It was really lamentable that, while the whole House felt impressed with the grave importance of the subject, it should become a mere party discussion to decide who were to sit upon the Treasury Bench. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) had read the first Resolution submitted by him to the House, and had stated the second in substance. Granting to the right hon. Gentleman the first Resolution, what did the second amount to? The right hon. Gentleman, admitting that it was impossible to interfere with private patronage,
 520 521 "The one, the great, the sole question for Ireland is the land question. Other agitations, such as that against the Established Church, are got up for party purposes, would infuse an clement of bigotry into the already disturbed relations of landlord and tenant, would effect the ruin of thousands of tenants, and precipitate that social catastrophe which we are anxious to avert." 522 Tablet, "If the Irish Church Establishment were abolished to-morrow; if its churches, lands, and rent-charges were applied to secular and even to Catholic purposes; or if the Catholic Church were put upon a level of perfect equality, we should only have dealt with one symptom, and not have reached the seat of the disease. The wound of Ireland is that, whereas the great majority of the population are Catholics, such a large proportion of the soil belongs to Protestants, and that Protestants form such a large portion of those classes which are raised in social station higher than the others." "We are of those who think that the notion of settling the Irish Church question by simply confiscating the property of the Protestant Church and abolishing its privileges is a foolish notion, and ought to be opposed as foolish, futile, and wrong." "It is related of Gonsalvo do Cordova, called the Gran Capitan by his countrymen, that he was promised by King Ferdinand the high post of Grand Master of the Order of Calatrava. But the King having afterwards altered his mind and disposed of the post otherwise, sent to the Great Captain to offer him the city of Loja. 'No,' said Don Gonsalvo; 'tell the King that I prefer my grievance to the city of Loja.'" "Tried and not found wanting through the vicissitudes of 1000 years, and in the hope that the temper of these pages may be found not alien from her own." "The governing body of the State, in order fully to discharge its duties, must profess, must support, must propagate a religion, must profess it personally and collectively. Upon us of this day has fallen—and we shrink not from it, but
 523 "That being the case, Her Majesty's Government have no hesitation in saying, that they are not prepared to undertake the responsibility of proposing to Parliament a Bill calculated to effect that object. They believe that this object (disestablishment) cannot be obtained except by means which must inflict great injury upon Ireland. … We have the Irish Protestant Church established as an existing institution in Ireland; it is not of recent creation, it rests upon the prescription of centuries, and, to use the expression of a distinguished Roman Catholic layman, it is rooted in our institutions: the firm belief of the Government is that it could not be subverted without revolution, with all the horrors that attend revolution."—[3  Hansard, "I am obliged, then, to conclude—most unwillingly to conclude, but most decidedly—that the endowment of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland, in place of the endowment of the Protestant Church in that country in connection with the State, is not an object which the Parliament of
 524 Hansard, "I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion, or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom; and I do solemnly in the presence of God profess, testify, and declare that I do make this declaration and every part thereof in plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever." 525
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he intends, in the present Session of Parliament, to introduce any measure to put a stop to the re-erection of the stake and hag nets and other obstructions to the navigation of the River Shannon, removed by order of the Special Commission on Fisheries?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the Secretary of the Commission informed him that great delay had been occasioned by the death of certain members of the body, and he was not able at present to state when the Report would be ready.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. H. E. SURTEES  moved that the Clerk read that portion of the Act of William and Mary that now applied to the Coronation Oath of Her Majesty.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he wished to say a few words on the legal argument they had just heard. The hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) had told the House that the Resolutions were illegal and unconstitutional, and so they would be if they were not followed up by legislation. It was, however, the intention of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) to carry them out in the only legal mode—namely, by a Bill, and if the House should adopt the Resolutions of his right hon. Friend it would be the duty of the Government to carry out the wishes of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that one of the Resolutions was illegal. But the words of the third Resolution were in fact the very words used in the Church Temporalities Act. That Act proposed to abolish certain Archbishoprics and Bishoprics. One was then vacant, and the
 552 553 "To-morrow? oh! that's sudden: Spare him, spare him!" 554 555 556 Froude History, "Tros Tyriusque mihi nullo discrimine agetur."
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he entertained a hope that from that time a better day was about to dawn for Ireland. Looking at the speeches of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) and the noble Lord opposite, it appeared that the obstacles that had so long stood in the way of the pacification of Ireland would, at no distant day, be finally removed. If no further obstacle were presented to that consummation than was contained in the Amendment which was the subject of debate, its ambiguous terms, and the faltering tone of the noble Lord who moved it, would afford no grounds for fearing the revolution or strife apprehended by the last speaker. The noble Lord scarcely realized the magnitude and importance of the issue. The Motion was only the offspring of the discussion which took place a few days ago. We were told that this was to be an Irish Session; that the state of Ireland was one fraught with imminent peril; that it was desirable, and it was intended, to have the matter discussed; and we were promised, some time ago, with some parade, a declaration of the policy of the Government. That was made in the speech of the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo), which disclosed a policy which neither the House, nor Ireland, nor this country could accept. If we were to believe the Amendment of the Government, it amounted to a confession that their propositions did not amount to a cure for the state of Ireland. Under these circumstances, the right hon. Member for South Lancashire had offered these Resolutions as a contribution towards a policy for Ireland, and the question was, "Will the House accept that policy?" It was satisfactory to note that the Irish Church had met with no defence or justification. Many statements had been wade, and arguments brought forward; but not a word had been said in favour of the Irish Church Establishment itself. No wonder it should not be defended. Formed by injustice, nurtured in discontent, the fertile source of heartburnings—a great obstacle, as he apprehended, in the way of the Protestant religion—the scandal of the principle of Church Establishments, and an obstruction in the way of good government,
 526 "We have heard something lately of the crisis of Ireland. In my opinion the crisis of England is rather it hand; for the purpose is now avowed, and that by a powerful party, of destroying that sacred union between Church and State which has hitherto been the chief means of our civilization and is the only security for our religious liberty." 527 528 529 Ironical cheers. 530 531 532
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he has seen an account of the Government authorities at Cork having compelled two respectable girls who were present at Mackay's trial (one the sister-in-law to the prisoner) to undress in an exposed room, in disregard of their entreaties that the blind of the window should be drawn down while they were undressing; and to ask if he will direct inquiries to be made as to whether that account is true?
 COLONEL NORTH  seconded the Motion, remarking that the Opposition had the other night, in the absence of their Leader, run riot. It was with the greatest difficulty that the late Judge Advocate General had obtained a hearing; and as for the present one, he had no chance.
 MR. LAING  said, he thought that, as he had given notice of an Amendment to be moved when the House went into Committee, it might be convenient that he should now briefly state the object he had in view, so that they might know the position in which they would find themselves on going into Committee. He confessed that, if that or any other Motion on the present question had been brought forward merely for a party purpose, he for one would be found among those on that (the Opposition) side, whom the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) called "followers who did not follow." He was of opinion that Her Majesty's Government having, in the last Session, carried a Reform Bill which, on the whole, was accepted as satisfactory to the country, might, under ordinary circumstances, have been left to appeal to the new constituencies which they had created. He would also add that, with respect to several branches of administration, and more especially with respect to foreign policy, he, for one, preferred the course pursued by the present Government to that adopted by their predecessors. For those reasons he would not have been disposed to join in any mere party vote in order to drive the Government prematurely from office. But while he would not have been prepared to sacrifice the Ministry to party he was equally not prepared to sacrifice Ireland to the Ministry. The Motion now before them raised an issue of first-rate and Imperial importance. For the raising of that issue at the present time the speeches made from the Treasury Bench on a recent occasion were in a great measure responsible. If the question had rested simply on the able speech delivered that evening by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, there might have been a fair case for asking for delay. If the Government had merely come forward and said, "This being the last Session of an expiring Parliament, and this being a question of first-rate importance, which cannot be practically settled till another Parliament has been elected by the newly-created constituency, we regard this as an open question, and we ask for time to make up our minds upon it." That might have been a fair position for them to take. But after what had fallen from the Government on the subject of the Irish
 542 543 544
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If an Army Cooking Apparatus, made and patented by Messrs. Jeakes and Co., has been submitted to or reported on to him; and whether it is not a much cheaper and much more efficient Cooking Apparatus than that of Captain Warren, R.N.?
 COLONEL FORDE  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Government will authorize; the Governor of Downpatrick Gaol to allow I the friends of Mr. Johnston to see him ill private, and on his parole to take exercise through the gaol grounds?
 MR. E. A. LEATHAM  said: I approach the consideration of this great branch of the question of Ireland, especially in its relation to Irish disaffection, with great diffidence and without the high hopes of political consequences which appear to actuate some. Do what we will, establish or disestablish what we please, endow or disendow what we may, I fear that the youngest Member of this House will never live to see Ireland what she might have been if our ancestors in their dealings with her people had not read backwards every precept of Christianity and every postulate of policy. But, by the magnitude of the wrongs which Ireland has sustained in the past, we are able to measure the strides which we have already made in the direction of restitution and right. It is true that we have taken nearly a century in learning to be just; but what is there in the condition of Ireland now to excite disaffection compared with the state of things less than a century ago? Then no Irish Catholic could inherit a single acre of land, discharge the humblest and simplest duties of the political citizen, fill any office of emolument or trust, exercise a single liberal profession, teach a child. Irish manufactures were shut out of this country by law, and, from one end of Ireland to the other, tithe was exacted by force of arms and with perpetual shedding of blood. Now, to say, as has been said, that the feeling against us in Ireland is as intense as ever it was seems to me not only to fly in the face of fact, but to utter a positive satire upon all that has been done. For if, after all these ameliorations, there is no amelioration in the fierceness of her attitude towards us, then, taking for granted as we must that the bond between the two countries is indissoluble,
 508 509 "That the State has a right to take away the property of all or any of these corporations—indemnifying, of course, those individuals actually enjoying the revenue—whenever the manifest inutility or hurtfulness of the institutions renders their abolition important to the public welfare"— 510 511 512 513
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, referring to the relative numbers of Protestants and Catholics in Ireland in 1861 and 1834, had stated that the proportion of Protestants had slightly increased. It was true that the proportion had increased, but only slightly; in spite of the severe sufferings of the people from famine and plague and the large emigration which had greatly thinned the Catholic population. The hon. Gentleman had argued for the maintenance of the Established Church in Ireland on the ground of its missionary character. But, if it was a missionary Church, that was a reason why it should no longer be retained as a State Church. He knew nothing more irritating to the feelings of the Roman Catholic population of Ireland than that a Church should be paid and maintained by the State
 517 518 "When the devil was sick the devil a monk would be; When the devil was well the devil a monk was he." 519
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that he was unable to answer the Question of the hon. Member, as the apparatus had not
 469
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  remarked that the words had been in the Mutiny Act for so long a time, and meant so very little, that he was surprised to find that the hon. Member for Chatham thought it worth his while to strike them out. At the same time, he was still more astonished that his noble Friend should think it worth his while to re-insert them.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  moved the insertion of words empowering the military authorities in Ireland to billet soldiers in private houses.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  appealed to the noble Lord (Lord Otho Fitzgerald) not to insist on the Amendment which he had succeeded in carrying on Thursday night.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to say one word with reference to what foil from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War. He had had occasion to notice what seemed to be a considerable irregularity. Three Amendments had been moved in Committee, and in the records of their proceedings only one of those Amendments was taken notice of. Having made inquiries upon the subject, he was informed that it was not usual to put upon the record of their proceedings any Amendment upon which divisions had not been taken. The very next day, however, after he had received that information, he discovered that an Amendment upon which a division had not been taken was recorded, while two other Amendments which had been moved under precisely similar circumstances had been altogether omitted. This was an irregularity of no unimportant character. For instance, the noble Lord the Member for Kildare (Lord Otho Fitzgerald) moved an Amendment in Committee upon the Mutiny Bill; but of that Amendment no notice was taken, and yet last-night that very Amendment was rescinded, and the words which originally stood in the Mutiny Bill were re-inserted.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  desired to move, with the permission of the House, the third reading of the Marine Mutiny Bill, so that it might at once be sent to the House of Lords.
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  said, that as this was not the first occasion on which he had addressed the House on the subject, and as his general opinions upon it were well known, he would not speak at any length, or be the means of preventing other hon. Members who might not have had the same opportunities as himself from expressing their sentiments upon this all-important question of national interest. His intentions were, as heretofore, to support those ecclesiastical institutions in Ireland
 606 607 608
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said: Sir, fault has been found with the speech of the noble Lord who moved this Amendment for want of candour. But candour is of two kinds—that which is articulate and that which is mute; and there is a
 609 610 611 612 613 "Nobody would have believed, three years ago, that the Union, Catholic Emancipation, and the restoration of perfect tranquillity, could have taken place in so short a time." Hansard 614 615 616
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE : Sir, as one of the representatives of the Protestant North, alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, the House will perhaps bear with me while I make a few observations on this most important subject which is under discussion; but before I do so I must allude to the observations just made by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. M'Cullagh Torrens) — observations I believe without the smallest foundation, and accusations the most unwarrantable I ever remember to have heard in this House. He has accused a right rev. Prelate who has been in his grave for nearly seventy years (a circumstance which makes proof of his inaccuracy difficult) — he has accused Lord Bristol, when Bishop of Derry, of inviting his clergy to dine with him to propound to them his disbelief in the existence of a God. I feel confident no such occurrence ever took place; and if the hon. Gentleman is as inaccurate in his assertions as to what took place in the far past, as he is in those which we cannot contradict, much value will not attach to his unsupported statement. He has told us Dr. Ponsonby was the last Bishop of Derry, ignoring altogether the existence of the late Dr. Higgins, who came to Derry as an Englishman, a stranger to us, elevated, not for aristocratic connections, but for his own merits, and who was taken from us, regretted by all who were brought in contact with him, after fifteen years' occupation of that See. The hon. Member for Finsbury wished to show that none but members of noble families were made Bishops, therefore to acknowledge the episcopate of Dr. Higgins did not suit his argument. So when he can misstate as to the present, much value will not attach to his aspersion on the memory of the dead nearly seventy years back. I will
 617 ad hominem, 618 "That this House, while ready to consider, with a view to its settlement, the question of Parliamentary Reform, is of opinion that it is inexpedient to discuss a Bill for the reduction of the Franchise in England and Wales until the House has before it the entire scheme contemplated by the Government for the Amendment of the Representation of the Fcoplo."—[3  Mansard, 619 620 "That the House do resolve itself into a Committeee of the Whole House to consider the temporalities of the Church of Ireland." 621 622 "The Church by law established is the Church of a community everywhere considerable in respect of property, rank, and intelligence; it is strong in the prescription of three centuries, and in the support which it receives from the supposed identity of its interests with those of the Church of England. Nothing short of a convulsion, tearing up both Establishments by the roots could accomplish its overthrow."
 MR. CARTER  said, that he should not have offered himself to the attention of the House, even for the few moments that he should occupy it, but for the fact that his
 623
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, after the able, manly, straightforward, and he might say glorious speech—not of the hon. and learned member for Sligo (Mr. Serjeant
 628 629
 CAPTAIN WHITE , as the representative of an Irish constituency, felt that he could not allow that question to be discussed without taking part in the debate. He confessed to having experienced, in common, he believed, with a majority of that House, and the whole of the Irish people, a feeling of intense disappointment at hearing the intentions of Her Majesty's Government to pursue in this matter a policy of procrastination and delay which must be as dangerous to their own existence as it was distasteful to the Irish people. It was obvious, however, that the time had at length arrived when, at the hands, if not of the Government, at least of the Imperial Parliament, the Irish Church, like other ancient institutions, in a Reformed House, must undergo a searching scrutiny, which could only result in a complete and radical reform. That such reform was necessary, he conceived there could be no reading or thinking man who would deny; for no one who knew anything of Ireland could assert that the ecclesiastical arrangements of that country were in a satisfactory condition, with the exception of a party whose line of action was predetermined, and whose representatives were bound to support the Established Church, and upon whom, of course, all arguments, however forcible and convincing, were thrown away. The disputants in this question had resolved themselves into two great parties—one for a broad scheme of reform, based on the re-distribution of Church revenues, yet advocates for the retention of the Establishment; and the other, those who urged those arguments—first, that the Irish Church was an anomaly of the most unparalleled nature, when they considered the numerical proportions of the different creeds. Those who supported this view argued that no solution could be arrived at but a total disendowment. The second argument was that
 638 639 640
 MR. BRIGHT : The House will not expect me to follow the legal argument of the light hon. and learned Member who has just sat down. I entertain a firm belief that those legal cobwebs which are spread, and which are supposed to, and do in the minds of many Gentlemen, interpose between the conviction of a great evil and the necessity of justice, will be swept away before long by the almost unanimous opinion of the people of the Three Kingdoms. During this debate, which now has only lasted two nights, there has been, if not a remarkable change of opinion, a remarkable change of expression. Last night we had on interesting speech from the noble Lord who generally sits opposite me, the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Viscount Cranborne). I refer only to the beginning of his speech, in which he spoke of his affection for the principle of the Church Establishment. There was a hesitation in his manner; be had a strong love for his principle, but it appeared to me that he thought the time was come when even that cherished principle would have to be surrendered. From the Treasury Bench we had a speech from the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and when he sat down it is difficult to say what was the precise impression made upon the House at large. But I think, on the whole, the impression made on the other side of the House — his own side—was by no means a comfortable one. Now to me it is—and I think to the House it is—a misfortune that we have a Government that speaks with a different voice from night to night. We had it last year, and I presume, from the example of the debate which lately took place on the Motion of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire), and on this Motion, we are about to see a repetition to it. Now, the fact is, that the position of the Government is one of great difficulty and perplexity. In point of fact, the position of the Government is one which I should call, in our Constitutional system, altogether unnatural. They are the Ministers, the Leaders of a minority of the House; and whilst they sat as Leaders of the minority in Opposition they defended the principles of their party, and they regarded apparently with satisfaction all their past career. The moment they are transferred to the Treasury Bench they find themselves in this difficulty, that although their party may still wish to cling to their past opinions, there is something in the very air, there is something throughout the
 646 647 648 649 650 651 652 653 654 655 656 657 658 659 660
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that, in deference to the wishes of the House, he would postpone his Motion respecting Irrigation in India to the 28th of April. But he deeply regretted being called upon for the second time to defer the consideration of a question which affected a population not of a few millions only, but of 150,000,000 of our fellow-subjects, of whom, too, mainly through the neglect of irrigation, in one district alone, and in the course of only a few months, according to official Returns, nearly 1,000,000 of souls had recently perished of famine.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, of course he had no desire to question the accuracy of so high an authority as Mr. Speaker upon the point to which he had just referred or to enter into any controversy with him; but he should like to know from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War his
 574
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had to call the attention of the House to a proceeding
 572 573
 MR. O'REILLY  remarked that the 5th Article of the Act of Union, which had been
 630 "I am a beneficed clergyman, but without cure of souls. I cannot help that. Every man's vocation is what God has given him. My vocation is to hold my tongue." 631 Quarterly Review "The Protestant garrison in Ireland, with whom we cannot break without gravely imperilling the integrity of the Empire, will not hear of such a proposal." 632 633
 MR. DISRAELI : You are mistaken.
 MR. DISRAELI : Not moribund.
 MR. SCHREIBER  said: Mr. Speaker, Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last but one from the Benches opposite (Mr. Serjeant Armstrong) with cruel skill protracted the painful operation which is familiarly known as that of "catching your eye;" but even at the price we paid, we should be sorry to have missed the last remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The overthrow of the Irish Church was, he confessed, to be the prelude to a "revolution," but we were not to be frightened at the word. The hon. and learned Gentleman began by pulling down the Orange flag, but before be ended he raised the red flag in its place. Sir, I highly appreciate the candour of an opponent, which admits the whole matter in dispute. Now, Sir, during the short time that I have had the honour of a seat in this House, questions of the gravest interest have been before us, and some of them have been solved in a manner the very opposite of that I could have wished: but none has ever caused me so much anxiety and pain as the question raised by the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman. Because, connected as I am by many ties with Ireland, and knowing the Irish people well, I cannot banish from my mind the melancholy conviction that, whatever may be the immediate issue of this debate, the day which saw those Resolutions laid upon the table of this House will be the beginning of many sorrows both to Ireland and this Empire. It was therefore, Sir, with profound satisfaction that I heard the speech of the Home Secretary
 634 635 Cheers and interruption. The Tablet "If the Irish Church Establishment were abolished to-morrow; if its churches, lands, and rent-charges were applied to secular and even to Catholic purposes; or if the Catholic Church were put upon a level of perfect equality, we should only have dealt with one symptom and not have reached the seat of the disease. The wound of Ireland is, that whereas the great majority of the population are Catholics, such a large proportion of the soil belongs to Protestants, and that Protestants form such a large portion of those classes which are raised in social station higher than the others." 636 637
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : There is no Member of this House who is more inclined to rate highly the gravity of the question now occupying our attention than I am. I quite admit that it is one of those questions which long ago it was thought must engage the attention of the House at no distant period; and, though we take exception to the particular period at which it is brought before the House, it is a question which we are prepared to meet on any occasion, and under any circumstances. It has been brought before the House in a speech of great power and eloquence, and by one who, from his position as a Leader in this House, and from his position in the country as a man of the greatest
 576 577 578 579 580 581 "It would be their duty to consider—whether surplus or no surplus—what obligations of the Act of Union remain to be fulfilled, and how they ought to be performed."—[3  Hansard, 582 "A mutual friend was the medium of communication, and the reply contained the following assurance, which was then deemed to be as satisfactory as it was intended to be. The document itself is at your disposal if its authenticity be called in question. It may suffice, however, to quote the following passage." "The question of the Irish Establishment is remote, and apparently out of all bearing upon the practical politics of the day." 583 "I think I have marked strongly my sense of the responsibility attaching to the opening of such a question. One thing I may add, because I think it a clear landmark. In any measure dealing with the Irish Church, I think (though I scarcely expect ever to be called on to share in such a measure) the Act of Union must be recognized, and must have important consequences, especially with reference to the position of the hierarchy." The Morning Herald, "I believe this House will not surrender the principle of the Established Church. I believe it will not alienate the property of the Church from the ecclesiastical uses to which it has been devoted."—[3  Hansard, 584 Ironical cheers from the Opposition. 585 "By the 5th Article of the Union it is declared that the continuance and preservation of the said United Church, as the Established Church of England and Ireland, shall be deemed and taken to be an essential and fundamental part of the Union. By fundamental is meant, with reference to the subject-matter, such an integral part of the compact of union formed between the two kingdoms as is absolutely necessary to the support and sustaining of the whole fabric and superstructure of the Union, raised and built thereupon; and such as, being removed, would produce the ruin and overthrow of the political union founded upon this Article as its immediate basis."—[1  Hansard, 586 587 588 "If long possession and the prescription of three centuries were not powerful enough to protect the property of the Church from spoliation, there is little safety for any description of private property; and much less for that property which is in the hands of lay corporations." "It was always admitted that so long as the corporate body which possessed the title to ecclesiastical property remains, so long as the property is not greater in amount than can be usefully applied by that corporate body, there is no right of principle on which Parliament can interfere to alienate property of that kind." 589 590 "The one, the great, the sole question for Ireland is the land question. Other agitations, such as that against the Established Church, got up for party purposes, would infuse an element of bigotry into the already disturbed relations of landlord and tenant, would effect the ruin of thousands of tenants, and precipitate that social catastrophe which we are anxious to avert." 591 "The Church property was set apart by the piety of our forefathers, whether in England or in Ireland, to maintain and propagate the Christian religion, and I tell you it is sacred and must be applied to that purpose. Those who minister at the altar shall live by the altar; this decree is as high as Heaven; you cannot take it away. It is strong as the Almighty; you cannot overthrow it. It is lasting as the Eternal; it can never cease to bind you. It is binding on you as Christian legislators and as Christian men, and, for one, there is no consideration on earth which shall induce me to compromise or violate it." 592 "Now, if there is one fact more than another which in the eyes of the Irish people at large exemplifies the evil of ecclesiastical inequality, it is the difference between the glebe house and land of the Anglican minister and the humble and often wretched habitation of their priest. This is a palpable, tangible fact. It is one which, even if the Anglican Church were disendowed to-morrow, would, until rectified, still evidence a contrast calculated to provoke discontent and irritation." 593 594 595 596 597 Laughter. 598 A laugh. 599
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he had no authority whatever over the County Constabulary, which was placed under the Magistrates of the County. It appeared, from inquiries made in consequence of the Question of the hon. Gentleman, that a man named Miller was dismissed by the Chief Constable of the Surrey Constabulary, who had absolute power to dismiss him, under, of course, the lawful authority of the Magistrates. The Justices, however, he understood, were about to investigate the case.
 MR. GOSCHEN  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the speech he had just delivered, and the party opposite for the manner in which it had been cheered, because they could now understand the construction put by the Conservative party on the Amendment. He recognized the true Conservative accents in the speech of the Home Secretary, so different from that of the noble Lord who moved the Amendment. Which interpretation were they to place upon that Amendment—that of the noble Lord or the right hon. Member for Oxford University? They knew very well what "considerable modifications" meant. They meant—not any reformation in the Irish Church, that would do justice to Ireland, in the sense the Liberal party understood it. They were to be modifications within the Church itself. If that was so, why was the fact not stated on the face of the Amendment, so that every one could understand it?—that, while the Government thought they might make a certain re-distribution of revenues, they would not touch the question of disestablishment or disendowment? The right hon. Gentleman was so eloquent at the end of his speech, he uttered sentiments so noble, that he was loth to recur to the recriminations of his right hon. Friend, in which he indulged at the commencement. It was, indeed, a
 600 601 602 603
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he was glad that the Parliament had been declared competent to entertain this question, and hoped that the Conservative press would take notice of that declaration, and would leave off saying that the Parliament was not competent to deal with the question. In his opinion, the House was quite competent to deal with the subject, and it was most important that they should do so without further delay. The right hon.
 604 605
 MR. GOSCHEN : Not moribund?
 MR. ONSLOW  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the case of Inspector Miller, of the Surrey County Constabulary, lately stationed at Reigate, who has been dismissed the Force, after a long and meritorious service, for subscribing to a newspaper termed the  Police Service Advertiser.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman has called this proceeding irregular and unprecedented; but I have to inform him that there are very many precedents for the course that has been adopted, and therefore it cannot be irregular. There are some occasions when public convenience is promoted by the House permitting Bills of this sort to be read on their third stage at an early hour of the evening, and in accordance with many precedents that course has been taken in the present instance, under an Order made by the House last night. The right hon. Gentleman says that the Standing Orders of the House have been suspended in order to permit this Bill to be read a third time: but I am sure that, with his knowledge of the forms of the House, he must be aware that there are no Standing Orders on the subject to suspend. It is for the House—if it thinks that it will conduce to public convenience and promote Public Business—to make an Order of this kind; and I would ask the right hon. Gentleman and the House if they ever knew any inconvenience arise from the adoption of the course that has been taken in the present instance with regard to these Bills. This is no question of interference with the rights of private Members. Had it not been for the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, the two Bills would probably have been disposed of by this time. My Answer to the Question of the right hon. Gentleman is, that the course taken with regard to these Bills is quite in conformity with precedent, and only for the promotion of the despatch of Public Business.
 MR. SPEAKER : My answer to the Question of the hon. Member is, that those Amendments only upon which divisions take place are entered on the Votes. If every verbal Amendment, and everything which occurs, were ordered to be entered on the Votes, it would be almost impossible to print them.
 MR. ROEBUCK  moved the adjournment of the debate to Thursday.
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, he had heard with astonishment the allegation that there was any substantial novelty in the proposition before the House. He admitted that a Resolution so conceived and so exactly expressing the direct object in
 624 625 626 a priori 627
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, that there was a time when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire stood forward as the defender of the Irish Church, and declared "Upon us as has fallen the defence of the National Church;" and he used the expression, that he defended it on the grounds of conscience and truth. He (the Attorney General) concurred in the opinion that it was to be defended upon those grounds. Whether these were still the sentiments of the right hon. Gentleman he knew not, for—
 "Tempora mutantur et nos mutamur in illis." primâ facie 641 "I ask, to whom does the existence of Church property do injury? Does it injure them (the Roman Catholics) in their purses or property? No; it is a property distinct from that of the owner of the land, a property to which the Church has as good a title as the title of any landlord: and I have yet to learn that our national condition would be improved by taking the revenues of
 642 "The existence of that Church property injures no man in purse. No man has a right to complain that his neighbour has an estate which he inherited from his ancestors, and which he will not transfer to him; and as little right have any other persons in the community to try to wrest from the Church the property which it enjoys and which it rightly and beneficially uses… You remember the legislator of old, who was asked why he had allotted no punishment in his laws to the crime of parricide, and he answered, because he did not believe such a crime could be committed. Was I, incoming before you, to negative the monstrous supposition that my sacrilegious hand could ever be raised to take away the life of that Church which gave to me my own." 643 "The Irish Established Church seems to be given up as an untenable post; and the Established Church is the main stronghold of British power in Ireland. The whole British system hangs together, and stands or falls together. Let no man believe that the question of Irish independence is an isolated question—that Ireland can be constituted an independent kingdom, or republic, and that Great Britain and she can go on peaceably side by side, each in her own way. No; Irish independence means the abolition of British monarchy—and so much the better. It has cumbered the earth too long." 644 "Everyone knows that our Bishops will be with us when the time comes, for none love Ireland better; and they have always blessed the cause which justice sustains by the pleadings of truth and prudence." "Let us also honestly say that the Church established by the law is a premium to anti-national sentiment. We shall make more Irishmen by the repeal of the Union between Church and State than we have lost by five years' emigration; and, better than all, we shall make unity in the land."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had no difficulty in replying to the Question of the hon. Member. In consequence of these Bills having been brought forward at a later period than usual, it became necessary to send them up to the other House of Parliament as soon as possible. It having been intimated to him last night that there would be nothing irregular in reading the Bills a third time at an early hour, he had adopted that course with the sanction of the House.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that some years ago he was Chairman of a Committee upon the Laws of Mortmain, and he might say that though, in that Committee, there was great variety of opinion upon the general subject, yet there was perfect unanimity upon this point, that there should be an exception in favour of institutions such as those mentioned in this Bill. In a former Committee, also, he believed that there was similar unanimity in favour of such an exception.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he should offer no objection to the second reading of the Bill. Last year a clause had been moved in "another place" which had induced the hon. Gentleman to give up his Bill; but that was a clause which it did not appear necessary to insist upon in a Bill which applied only to the objects which this Bill contemplated. He by no means said that it was unnecessary to keep up those restrictions on grants and alienations of land which were imposed by the
 664
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) was mistaken in supposing that this Bill had been prepared in Ireland in the form in which it now came before the House. It underwent considerable examination and alteration last year in Committee of that House and in Select Committee. He did not intend to oppose the second reading of the Bill, although it was a fair matter for discussion in Committee, whether the measure ought to receive the sanction of that House or not. There was an important principle involved in the Bill—he should rather say in the first section, by which it was proposed for the first time to allow an editor or proprietor of a newspaper to show that an alleged libel was a true and fair report of the proceedings at a meeting lawfully assembled for a lawful purpose, open to reporters for the public newspapers, and at which a reporter was present for the purpose of reporting the proceedings of such a meeting for a public newspaper, and that the report was published in such newspaper by the defendant  bonâ fide, 666
 MR. HENLEY  said, he also had served upon the Select Committee upon this Bill, and fully appreciated the great difficulty that existed in dealing with this question. He agreed, on the one hand, that the Press should be freed from all undue restrictions, while, on the other, it should be rendered answerable for any abuse of its privileges. As to the question whether the provision in the Bill rendering a speaker amenable for the words he used should be retained, he must inform the House that the clause as it now stood was altered to its present form in Select Committee. The case of a man who deliberately used words at a meeting where he knew reporters were present for the purpose of publishing his speech was very different from that of the man who casually uttered words which he believed would, in all human probability, go no further, and it was worth the consideration of the House whether some difference should not be made in the law with regard to the two cases. The words of the Bill upon this point were very precise, as they strictly limited its operation to a certain class of meetings at which reporters were known to be present. On the whole was it not of great advantage to the public that publicity should be given to the proceedings at the vast number of public meetings at which reporters were present? The question must be judged by the balance of convenience. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had objected to relieve those who published newspapers from their responsibility, on the ground that by adopting such a course Parliament would be degrading the office of reporter. But when hon. Members recollected what the gentlemen of that profession—whose vast skill and accuracy in recording speeches he readily admitted — had to do they would see that it was hardly possible that they could think of anything except of making a faithful transcript of the speaker's words; and really this was all they had to do. It was, therefore, not the reporters, but the proprietors of newspapers, for whose relief the Bill had been introduced, and even they had but little time for exercising their discretion as to what should and what should not be published. It was sometimes extremely difficult to determine what was and what was not a libel, and frequently it puzzled both Judge and jury to determine the question, and yet newspaper proprietors
 671
 MR. HENLEY  complained that as the clause was now drawn the report of the officer of health could be carried out without giving the owner of the premises notice, and his only remedy would be by an appeal. The clause ought to be amended so as to give him notice in the first instance, and allow him to be heard upon the complaint made of the state of his property.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  thought it was not within the province of the Committee to renew the discussion on the policy of the measure. The Bill had been twice read a second time, and would have gone through Committee but for want of time. He defended the provision contained in this clause as beneficial and necessary.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  objected to the proposal.
 MR. HENLEY  could not see on what principle severe restrictions should be placed upon a man who, having pulled down his old property, was about to rebuild it.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  thought that the operation of this clause would be very useful, especially in many districts of London, where the powers of the local authorities were far from sufficient to cope with cases which this clause was framed especially to meet.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and which had been accepted by the author of the Bill, would answer every purpose; and therefore he hoped the hon. Member for Cambridge would withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL SYKES  thought that if power was given to the local authorities to turn working people out of their dwellings on the ground that they were unhealthy, the local authorities ought to be compelled to provide better dwellings for them.
 MR. AYRTON  thought there was no necessity for the Amendment. The local authorities within seven years would be obliged to divest themselves of all property which they had acquired under this measure.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he trusted the opposition to the clause would be withdrawn. All it did was to carry out to a further extent than had hitherto been done the policy of the Act of 1855. It simply provided that if a house was in a certain bad and unhealthy condition it should be brought under the notice of the local authorities. That, he considered, was a very necessary provision in order to rescue the poor from the consequences of the past neglect of the Legislature. As to the expense he trusted the House would put the expense incurred for the metropolis on the metropolis.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) in introducing this Bill in November last, intimated that the Bill would have been passed into a law in the previous Session had it not been for his (Mr. Ayrton's) opposition to it, and, in truth, the remarks of the hon. and learned Member, instead of being addressed to the merits of the Bill, had rather been addressed to his demerits. In his opinion the Bill had passed through that. House last Session in consequence of an assurance that it would go no further. Being one of the many efforts of the hon. and learned Member for the benefit of mankind
 667 668 nisi prius
 MR. BARCLAY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any steps have been taken by the Mauritius Government, since the renewed outbreak of fever, to promote sanitary reform in the town of Port Louis; and, whether any instructions have been sent, or are about to be sent, by the Home Government, empowering either the Governor or the General Board of Health to enforce the sanitary measures required?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to enable Her Majesty's Postmaster General to acquire, work, and maintain Electric Telegraphs in the United Kingdom, said, he was sorry that he had not a more convenient opportunity to ask leave to introduce the Bill of which he had given notice; but the business of the last week had been so engrossing, that he had not been able to find a more convenient one. He was afraid that the time now at his disposal was so limited that he should not be able to detail to the House at any great length the scheme of the Government; but he would endeavour to give all the information
 679 680 s. s. d.; s.; s. s. d. s.; s. d. s. d., s. d. d. s. d. 681
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved that leave be given to introduce the Bill.
 MR. ADDERLEY , in reply, said, the latest information from the Mauritius was dated February 16, and arrived on March 18. It stated that the fever was on the increase in Port Louis, and had spread to the interior. At that time the chief medical officer stated that the fever had assumed a much milder form, and was better understood; while the attacks were in a considerably smaller proportion fatal. He also stated that there was now an ample supply of quinine and other drugs, which there had not been at first, and which were most useful in meeting the attacks. With respect to the second portion of the Question
 661
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the circumstances of the landing of the 86th Regiment would be better stated by his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War, who was at present absent from the House; but he might, in the meanwhile, observe that circumstances had been very much misunderstood, and much greater precautions had been taken as to the landing and disposal of these troops when landed than had been supposed. He believed little bad result had followed. There had been some sickness, but only one death in that Regiment. The measures which had been taken with a view to the reformation of the municipality of Port Louis did not affect the officers to whom the Question of the hon. Gentleman referred. They simply had reference to the efficiency of the municipality
 662
 MR. REARDEN  gave his cordial support to the Bill, which he believed was very much wanted. Newspaper proprietors had done their duty admirably, and should not be subject to such restrictions as at present. Being a great reader of newspapers, and a subscriber during thirty-five years to no less than nineteen of them, he thought he was entitled to express an opinion on the subject.
 MR. GREENE  thought the objection of the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. Harvey Lewis) should have been taken at an earlier stage of the inquiry. He had no respect for any man who dared to get up in the House and say the dwellings of the poor were not a disgrace to the country. It was all very well to talk about sweeping away districts—that was all clap-trap. He was in favour of the Bill in the main, and he feared that, if it were now thrown over, legislation upon this important question would be for a long time delayed. He was surprised at the opposition of the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. Harvey Lewis) to the measure; and he thought that hon. Gentlemen who went to the hustings with professions of anxiety for the welfare of the working man on their lips ought to carry out those professions practically in the House.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  thought that until the Committee had determined by whom the orders were to be made, they were not in a position to go on with the Bill.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would remind the Committee that the clause was identical with that in the Building Act; so that it was not new. All the clause imposed was that the medical officer should report; and as the principle had been previously affirmed by the House, it was their duty to endeavour to bring the Bill into such a shape as that it should be just to the ratepayers and beneficial to the inhabitants of these miserable and wretched dwellings. This clause, after all, merely provided for a report which need not be carried out. The question of increasing the rates was a material one, and deserved consideration.
 MR. HADFIELD , in moving the second reading of this Bill observed that it was very nearly in the words of a measure which last Session passed through the House without a dissentient voice. Two Members of the Cabinet expressed their opinion in favour of that measure, and a like opinion had been expressed by two Chairmen of Committees appointed to consider the Mortmain Act, 9  Geo. Vict. 663
 MR. LEEMAN  said, this was one of the most useful clauses of the Bill.
 MR. LEEMAN  proposed an Amendment which he thought would meet the view of the hon. Gentleman—namely, that a copy of the inspector's report be delivered to the person whose premises were reported to be unhealthy.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would also abstain from discussing the Bill at its present stage. He hoped there would be a discussion of the principle of the Bill, to a certain extent when it was in Committee. The law of libel affected the liberty of the subject almost more than any oilier branch of law. So far as he had heard every one of the petitions in favour of this Bill had originated, if not directly emanated, from parties who were interested in the matter—namely, the representatives of the Press. If there was any injustice whatever in the present law of libel, such was the elasticity of the Common Law of England that any man could go before a Court of Law and say, "Here is an unjustice, it is not right that a man should be punished for this transaction." If that could be made clear to the common sense of those who presided over the Court, they could adapt their decision according to the circumstances. If this Bill were passed, it would be impossible for any man to understand the law of libel. The Bill, which had been prepared in Ireland, struck at the root of freedom of speech. The Courts of Law, having administered the law of libel for centuries to
 665
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, What measures have been taken for the removal of the 86th Regiment from the Mauritius, and within what period it may be expected that the Regiment will, by this or other means, be rescued from its present perilous condition; and, with reference to the General commanding in the Mauritius and the Colonel of the Regiment, whether any steps have been taken or are intended to fix upon those officers respectively the responsibility for the disastrous results of their having landed the said Regiment, in disregard of instructions and in defiance of the express framing of the local authorities?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, other parties besides the inhabitants of Marylebone had petitioned against the Bill, and the clause under discussion would be so exceedingly expensive in the carrying of it out that practically it would be inoperative. He thought a clause ought to be introduced into the Bill to provide that a certain, number of cubic feet of air should be provided
 675
 MR. CANDLISH  moved an Amendment to the effect that the contents of the report of the local officer of health affecting the premises of any person should be communicated to that person, in order that he might have an opportunity of removing the nuisances complained of, without the necessity of his being summoned in the first instance before the quarter sessions or the magistrates.
 MR. CANDLISH  suggested that an alteration should be made, for the purpose of giving a discretion to the local authorities. As the clause stood the local authorities would have to carry out the suggestions of the local inspector.
 MR. CANDLISH  moved an Amendment that would substitute "fourteen days" for "three calendar months," with the view of preventing owners postponing the execution of works for too long a period.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that as this was the case he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. SPEAKER  here called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the fact that it was a quarter to six o'clock.
 MR. SPEAKER  here intimated that the time during which any discussion could be taken had passed.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, there was hardly a street that might not be swept away under the clause. A medical officer might have reported at one time against that House on the ground that its situation in proximity to the Thames was prejudicial to health, and have had it swept away.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  objected to its terms as giving too much power to medical officers of health.
 MR. LOCKE  did not think there could be any objection to the local authorities exercising powers to prevent any deviation from the rule they may lay down as to the erection of buildings.
 MR. LOCKE  said, if the object of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert) was not to prevent the local authorities from being obliged to erect new dwellings for the poor, there was no necessity for the Amendment. He apprehended that the hon. Member's object was to relieve the local authorities of that responsibility, and therefore he should oppose the Amendment.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  wished to guard against its being supposed that he assented to a portion of this Bill, which some persons thought was a very essential part of it—namely, the third clause, by which it was proposed to make every speaker at a public meeting liable for words spoken to the same extent as if he had sat down and deliberately written and published them. He did not wish to discuss the question on the second reading of the Bill; but he begged to give notice that in Committee upon the Bill he should move that the clause to which he referred be struck out. In the Committee the question could be fully discussed.
 MR. GRAVES  said, the clause as it stood was an exact copy of one which had for some years been working in the most satisfactory manner in Liverpool.
 MR. GRAVES  remarked that the point under discussion was one with reference to which previous legislation had failed. It happened that, after the ground was cleared, there were instances of warehouses and sheds being erected on the site, thus preventing the free circulation of the air, and causing an evil as great as the one intended to be redressed by the clearing of the ground. In fact, a very high price was paid for improvements by the local authorities, and when the money was paid, the site was turned to private and individual purposes, This was a point that required very careful consideration, and he suggested its postponement to enable them to go carefully through it.
 MR. GRAVES  pointed out that the power to go up to the maximum was permissive, and not compulsory.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  agreed with the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. Harvey Lewis), and said that in legislating on this subject they must take care not to introduce continental despotism.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was convinced, from the evidence which had been laid before the Select Committee appointed to consider this Bill, and of which he was a Member, that the Press of this country was entitled to some legislative protection against vexatious actions for libel, which were frequently brought by speculative attorneys and involved costs amounting to hundreds, if not thousands of pounds, even although only one farthing damages might be awarded to the plaintiff. Under these circumstances he was prepared to vote for the second reading of the Bill, on the understanding that several material alterations should be made in it in Committee. Although he was willing to give reasonable protection to the proprietors
 669 670
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  rose to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the Bill sought to give exclusive power.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he did not intend at that moment to enter into any general defence of the Bill, believing that the House was favourable to its second reading, and that it would be better to discuss it clause by clause when they got into Committee, as each of the first five clauses involved an important principle. Under these circumstances, he should fix the Committee for such a day as would enable the whole subject to be fully discussed. In answer to the observations of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), he begged to state that he had not charged that hon. and learned Gentleman with having prevented the Bill from passing into a law, but merely with having prevented it from getting into the House of Lords in sufficient time for it to be carried last Session. The Bill was introduced last March twelvemonth, and after being read a second time, was referred to a Select Committee, which included among its Members the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), the Attorney General, and the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck). Having been fully considered by that Committee, the Bill in an altered shape came down to that House, and was discussed clause by clause in Committee. On the third reading of the Bill the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets thought fit to put a Notice upon the Paper to read the Bill a third time on that day six months, but was beaten upon a division
 672
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  moved the second reading of this Bill.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  suggested a modification in the terms of the clause. He was friendly to the measure; but he thought that the scope of the duties assigned to the officer of health was too wide, and he wished to restrict the duties of the surveyor by leaving out the word "prejudicial." "injurious" or "dangerous" was quite sufficient.
 MR. POWELL  moved to omit the words "subject to the provisions of this Act with reference to the use thereof," his object being to leave the owners of property interfered with under the Act in the same condition as other owners of property.
 MR. POWELL  objected to the effect it must have upon the disposal of the ground from which premises should be removed. It would, he contended, if adopted, impose a restraint upon the use of the land even for purposes that might be desirable for the public good or for the private advantage of the owner. By various local Acts, in force in almost all the large towns, there was ample power given to the local authorities to regulate the erection of buildings, he proposed to omit certain words, to get rid of the objectionable effect of the clause.
 MR. POWELL  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. POWELL  moved an Amendment enabling building companies, as well as the local authorities, to erect dwellings for the labouring classes.
 MR. GOLDNEY  observed that the clause was simply conditional, and could not be acted upon without the previous assent of the local authorities.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, this clause merely provided how the Act was to be put in
 673
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  thought that all the requirements of the case could be met without the operation of this clause, and if his hon. Friend the Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) persevered with his Amendment to strike it out, he should go into the Lobby with him.
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. Harvey Lewis) would divide the Committee
 674
 MR. HIBBERT  proposed the omission of the words after the word "first" in line 5, down to the word "authority" in line 8, for the purpose of inserting the following words:—
 "Dispose of by way of absolute sale or exchange — or for a lease for a period of not less than ninety-nine years—any part of the premises acquired by them under this Act, so as to provide thereby for the construction of new buildings or the repair or improvement of existing buildings thereon suitable for the occupation of the labouring classes."
 MR. HIBBERT  denied that that was his object.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. CHAMBERS  moved an Amendment to restrict the maximum rate to 1 d., d.,
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  objected to the clause and to the whole scope and substance of the Bill, on the ground that it would lead to an enormous extent of taxation. Knowing that in Marylebone the limit of endurance had been reached with reference to local taxation he hoped the House would reject the clause. The medical officer was not only to inspect streets and premises, but to report if their condition, state, and situation were injurious or prejudicial to health. There was not a town in the kingdom where exception might not be taken to the situation of houses; and were they on the mere report of the officer of health to have them swept away? This Bill was not required; for more had been done during the last ten years to improve the dwellings of the labouring classes than had been done in the previous 100 years.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought the House would expect from him some explanation as to the charge of want of courtesy on his part. He disclaimed any want of courtesy. The rule of the House was that no Member should have a claim to a particular seat unless he was at Prayers, and unless he put his card on the back of the seat; but there were a great number of Members who were constant in their attendance at Prayers, and who therefore by the courtesy of the House were allowed constantly to occupy certain seats. ["No, no."] He said Yes. On that very Bench there were five Members who continually occupied the same seats in consequence of their constant attendance at Prayers for many years. During the three Parliaments he had been in the House he had occupied the same seat, or the corresponding one on the opposite side, and it had rarely been occupied, though accident had kept him from Prayers. He had an instance of what he stated to be the custom in the case of the hon. Member below him—the hon. Member for Sheffield, who had occupied the same seat ever since he (Colonel Sykes) had been in the House.
 MR. BRUCE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, If it is true that
 700
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that the regulation of British colonial ports was not conducted by the Foreign Office, and it was needless to add that the Government had no power over the acts of Foreign Powers; but he might state that a Sanitary Board had been established at Constantinople, having for its object to check the spread of cholera in the Mediterranean; and some regulations had been issued by that Board, respecting which he had replied to a Question by the hon. Baronet a few days since. Regarding the latter part of the Question, he doubted whether it would be worth while to do as was suggested.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, it is not very easy to obtain accurate and trustworthy information with reference to what is passing in Crete; but I think I may say that many of the stories of the outrages and acts of cruelty which have appeared in the newspapers have been, if not wholly invented, yet very much exaggerated and over-coloured. Generally, I take the state of things in Crete to be this:—The insurrection
 706
 MR. YORKE  desired some information from the Foreign Secretary touching the issue to be submitted to the House, he believed, before its adjournment. In common, he presumed, with other supporters of the Government, he had that morning received through the usual channel a request to attend in his place; but the request was accompanied by a printed paper which he believed he might read without committing a breach of confidence,
 707 "That there may be no misunderstanding, it is greatly desired that Members will bear in mind that the  first not "Motion made, and Question proposed, 'That this House will immediately resolve itself into a a Committee to consider the said Acts':—( Mr. Gladstone. Lord Stanley
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, in answer to the Question of my hon. Friend, I may say it is not my intention to withdraw the Amendment which I have moved, nor will any change or modification whatever be made in the course of our proceedings as
 708
 MR. GLADSTONE : I think, Sir, if I might ask the indulgence of my hon. Friend, it perhaps would be more convenient and more in accordance with the usage of debate if I were to offer in any remarks I may have to make on the Amendment of the noble Lord to-morrow night what would substantially serve as a reply to him. I would only say, as I know he is quite right in his statement that a great interest is felt on the subject—that I thought I had in my opening speech answered what I take to be the most important part of the hon. Member's Question, by saying that in my opinion—for I can say no more than that it was my opinion—any plan such as I had been endeavouring to lay the basis and foundation of must include provisions, whether immediate or not, for the entire relief of the Consolidated Fund from all charges, either for the Maynooth Grant or any other purposes of religion in Ireland.
 MR. HENLEY : I can assure my right
 717 718 719 720 721
 GENERAL PEEL : The vote which I shall give upon the present occasion will be governed entirely by the opinion I have formed upon the effect of the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman upon the Constitution of this country. It will have no reference to that other issue which may govern the votes of many Gentlemen opposite—namely, whether the right hon. Member for South Lancashire or the right hon. Member for Bucks shall sit upon the Treasury Bench; but I cannot help expressing my regret that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) should have thought it necessary to make the destruction of the Protestant Church in Ireland the war-cry by which, I will not say to rally "the rabble" around him—for, notwithstanding the high authority of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie), I do not think that is a respectful way of speaking of hon. Gentlemen opposite—but in order to induce
 722 "The Catholics acknowledge no prescription
 723 "That it is expedient to provide for the repeal of the Laws which impose civil disabilities upon the Roman Catholic subjects of His Majesty, with such exceptions, and under such Regulations, as may be required for the full and permanent security of the Establishments in Church and State, for the maintenance of the Reformed Religion, established by Law, and of the rights and privileges of the Bishops and of the Clergy of this Realm, and of the Churches committed to their charge."—[2  Hansard, 724 "The hon. Member who had spoken last had fallen into the strange notion, which had been lately brought into notice, that nothing less than the subversion of the Established Church could content the Catholics. Such an idea was so injurious to the persons to whom it attached, and so utterly out of their contemplation—an idea which he trusted none of them dreamed of—that it was creating feelings in their minds which they never thought of, to suggest this objection."—[2  Hansard, 725 "If this measure were likely to endanger the Protestant Church, or at all to trench upon its constitution, then he should think Catholic Emancipation a measure attended with danger."—[2  Hansard, "If the question were to go to a division on the grounds stated by the hon. Member for Colchester, there was not a friend to the Catholics on the Opposition side of the House, and, he hoped, not a friend to the Established Church on either side, who would not unhesitatingly refuse his support to it."—[ Ibid. 726 727 728
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he believed that circumstance was mentioned by Dr. Moziere Brady.
 LORD CLAUD JOHN HAMILTON  said, the speech just delivered had proceeded from an Irish Protestant. But the hon. Gentleman was not a fair sample of the Irish Protestants, and if he had been the "garrison" of which they had heard so much would have long ceased to exist. The Amendment moved by the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had been characterized as vague and indefinite, and if he had wished to meet the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) on his own terms he would have brought forward an Amendment of such a nature. The noble Lord had allowed that modifications in the temporalities of the Irish Church might appear expedient;
 768 769 770 "On us this day has fallen—and we shrink not from it, but welcome so high, glorious, but arduous, a duty—the defence, of the Catholic Church in Ireland as the religious Establishment of that country." 771
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he wished to make a suggestion with regard to the course of business to-morrow. On ordinary occasions, the usual practice was to take the Motion relating to the holidays before the main business of the evening. Now, although he was sanguine in the hope that nothing would occur to prevent the adjournment for the holydays to-morrow, it was plain that it would not be desirable to settle the matter before the main business of the evening was brought to a conclusion. It would be convenient and satisfactory to the House if the questions could be taken after the main business was concluded, when it might be hoped that that important question would have come to an issue on its first stage, and that they should know something of the mode in which the Government proposed to deal with its future stages.
 VISCOUNT CRANBORNE : Sir, the Answer given by the noble Lord to the Question just put has, I think, a very material bearing upon the proceedings of the House, and raises difficulties which I should like to apply to you, Sir (Mr. Speaker), authoritatively to solve. I desire then to ask you whether the first division, if it be taken on the Question, "That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question," is to be considered as a division on the Main Question, "That the House do now resolve itself into a Committee;" because if it be so, of course those who vote with the right hon. Gentleman are voting in the sense of his Resolution; and if it be not so, those who do not vote with the Government abstain from voting for the Amendment of the noble Lord. I desire, therefore, to know from you, Sir, the precise purport of the Question which you are to put from the Chair.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, it is true that Mr. Whitworth has made a most munificent offer, in a letter addressed to the First Lord of the Treasury, on the 18th of March last. Mr. Whitworth proposes to found thirty scholarships of the annual value of £100 each, to be open to public competition, and to be obtained by proof of intelligence and efficiency in mechanics and cognate sciences. I need not say that that generous offer was accepted with thanks by the Committee of Council on Education, and the Minute embodying his letter, which is the only Paper on the subject, I propose to lay of the table of the House.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, in reply, that he had not spoken of an imperfect vaccination of individuals, or of a partial vaccination of the population. By a perfect vaccination of the whole people the disease could be stamped out. As an example he might mention that this had been done in one district by the energy of Dr. Hughes, of Mold, in North Wales. The paragraph from the  British Medical Journal, "Arrest of the Small-pox at Woolwich.—We are very glad to learn that the careful measures of vaccination and visitation instituted on the advice of Dr. Seaton, at Woolwich, are really telling now."
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, Whether it is a fact that the Chairman of the Gravesend and Milton Board of Guardians objected to the appointment as porter of a person, otherwise well qualified, on the ground that he was a Roman Catholic; whether such objection caused his rejection; and, whether he will have any objection to lay any Correspondence on the subject upon the table of the House?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will lay on the Table any Correspondence, with respect to the purchase of the Electric Telegraphs, which has taken place between the Government and the several Companies?
 MR. LEFROY  said, at a crisis so momentous as the present he would gladly have left the defence of his Church to abler hands than his own. As, however, the Resolutions proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire materially effected the interests of the constituency which he represented, he felt it his duty to express, as forcibly as he could, his objections to them. He regretted that so much party spirit had been infused into this debate, and should have been much better pleased to hear a matter so solemn and important as the one under consideration discussed in a fairer and more becoming spirit, and with the simple object of ascertaining what was the best that could be done under the circumstances. Ireland on this, as well as on many former occasions, had been made the battle-field of political warfare. He deeply lamented that such should be the case. He felt some difficulty in dealing with this subject; because, if he made any references to the speeches of hon. Gentlemen present, he would be told that he was indulging in the  argumentum ad hominem, 755 756 "In any measure dealing with the Irish Church, I think, though I scarcely expect ever to be called upon to share in such a measure, the Act of Union must be recognized and must have important consequences, especially with reference to the position of the hierarchy." The Cork Reporter, The Tablet, 757
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the Government had no other wish than to suit the convenience of the House. He might say that representations had been made to him as much from one side as the other, that Gentlemen were very anxious that the usual holydays should be observed. He had thought of putting on the Paper to-night a Notice to that effect, so that the House might express an opinion upon it. He had no objection, however, to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, if it was acceptable to the House; but he must express his own opinion that there could be no doubt that the debate would conclude to-morrow.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, in reply, that Papers relating to the communications between the Government and the Electric Telegraph Companies in reference to the proposed purchase of the Electric Telegraphs by the Government would be laid upon the table before the Bill was proceeded with, and the second reading of the Bill would be deferred for a sufficient period to allow the House time to consider it.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the subject to which the Question of the hon. Member relates is one of very great importance, but I am not prepared to deal with it in the manner he suggests. I shall make every possible effort to carry the Bill which refers to Parliamentary Elections before the dissolution. I think that that is a matter of the greatest moment; but I do not contemplate mixing it up with the subject referred to by the hon. Member.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce a measure for the purpose of winding up the funds alluded to by the hon. Member, nor did the Government propose to introduce, at present at all events, a Bill to deal with the Court of Chancery in the way suggested by the hon. Member. With reference
 701
 MR. GREENE  said, he had remained in the House for the purpose of opposing the Bill; but having heard of the arrangement he would not do so, at least at this stage.
 MR. HOLLAND  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, When the Papers which were laid upon the table of the House in December (having reference to the steering and sailing rules), together with the set of diagrams, explaining the "Rule of the Road at Sea" under every circumstance, will be printed and issued?
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to a Question of Privilege. The number of seats in the House was very limited, and it would be extremely convenient to Members to know the rule upon which seats were to be retained for the night. Last year a Question arose upon this very matter with respect to two Gentlemen on the other side of the House, who had placed their cards on the Bench before the Speaker came in to Prayers. On that occasion he believed it was ruled that it was necessary a Member should be present at Prayers in order to secure his seat for the night, and that no card left upon the seat before that time would entitle an hon. Member to a seat for the night unless he had been present at Prayers. He thought it was also laid down on that occasion that if any hon. Member placed his hat upon the seat, it was to be supposed that he remained within the precincts of the House, and if he returned before the Speaker came in to Prayers he was entitled to retain the seat for the
 698
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he believed the Bill would be almost immediately printed and circulated.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he found that Stone was dismissed in 1864, and the case had on several occasions been investigated. A gratuity had been given to that officer, for which he expressed his thanks. He thought the matter ended there, as Stone did not complain of any other grievance, and asked for some other employment. The hon. Member was perfectly welcome to see the Papers, which were very voluminous, but he did not think any advantage would result from their being printed.
 MR. CLIVE  said, he would stand but a very few moments between Irish Members and the House. The House would not suspect him of wishing to recapitulate the arguments of this debate. Indeed, he had been able to get up but little enthusiasm on the subject. There were, however, one or two speeches which he must notice. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Horsfall) said, that in the event of the Irish Church being disestablished, the Northern Protestants would be for the repeal of the Union. Now, his experience was entirely at variance with this conclusion, and he disbelieved it entirely. Moreover, the hon. Member reproduced the argument of Dr. O'Brien as to the area of some of the parishes in Ireland. Kilcommon was his instance. A great portion of that parish belonged to him (Mr. Clive), and he could answer for it there was little there for a clergyman to look after. There were grouse and snipes, but no roads, except those which he had made, and which, by the way, had given a great deal of employment to the people, thereby proving that landlords were not altogether so bad as they were represented to be. Well, then, the hon. and learned Member for Sligo (Mr. Serjeant Armstrong) told them on that side of the House that there was a great aversion towards the Protestant clergy, on the part of the Roman Catholic population. Now, he had known Ireland well for twenty year, before, during, and since the famine, and
 753 754
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to put to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire a Question, which he had reason to believe would be answered satisfactorily by him—that was to say, in the sense in which he was understood to have spoken when introducing his Resolutions. His reason for putting it was that it related to a matter in which the public took very considerable interest. The Question which he wished to put to the right hon. Gentleman was this, Whether, in the event of the Resolutions moved by him being carried, he would include in
 709
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received an Estimate of the Expense incurred in India for the Abyssinian Expedition, he having stated on the 18th of February that he had telegraphed to Bombay for this Estimate; and whether he will state its contents and lay it upon the table?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has any objection to lay on the table Copies of all Correspondence in his Office or in the Office of the Chief Commissioner of Police, respecting the dismissal of police sergeant Stone from the Metropolitan Police Force?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is his intention to propose to Parliament, during the present Session, to charge the salaries and expenses of the English Court of Chancery on the Consolidated Fund and Votes of Parliament, as is now the case with the other Courts of Common Law and Equity in the United Kingdom; and, whether, as the salaries, compensations, and other expenses of the Irish Court of Chancery are so charged under the Act of 1867, he intends to apply to Parliament for power to wind up the Suitors' Fee Fund, Exchequer Compensation and Fee Fund, Chancery Compensation and Fee Fund, Bankruptcy and Compensation Fund, and Box Fund. He would put, at the same time, the other Question of which he had given Notice. Whether it is the intention of the Government to follow up the inquiry as to fees, commenced by the Committee of which Mr. Goschen was Chairman, appointed by the late Board of Treasury?
 MR. WYLD  called attention to Clause 100, as follows:—
 799 "All costs, charges, and expenses preliminary to and of and incidental to the preparing, applying for, obtaining, and passing of this Act (including those incurred by the Board of Trade in relation to the Metropolis Gas Bill introduced in the first Session of Parliament in the year 1867) shall be paid by the Metropolitan Board of Works as the Board of Trade direct."
 MR. COLERIDGE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Question raised by the hon. and gallant Member for Longford (Colonel Greville-Nugent) has been often under the consideration of the House, and the House has laid down rules upon the subject for the observance of its Members. The hon. and gallant Member accurately stated what passed relative to this question last year, and the words that were
 699
 MR. SPEAKER : The Original Motion before the House is, "That the House resolve itself into Committee." To that an Amendment had been proposed, and the House has, up to this time, been mainly engaged on the Amendment. If the House should affirm "That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question." that will be decisive of the Amendment, and then will come the Main Question, which will stand disembarrassed from all other words.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, As I hold very definite and what are called in the cant phrase of the day "advanced" opinions on this subject, I shall be very plain and explicit in my statement of them. From the time that I entered political life I may say I have held steadfastly one opinion about Established Churches—I have always believed that they are a mischief; and therefore, Sir, impelled by no personal object, whether of power or profit—impelled neither by party considerations nor yet by any purposes of ambition—I shall vote for the right hon. Gentleman's Resolutions. I believe that a Church Establishment is a bad instrument for teaching religion. A Government when it undertakes to teach religion must, of necessity, undertake to teach some particular religion, and by so doing must necessarily give offence to a great number of persons in respect to subjects which they believe to be of the greatest possible importance. Moreover, I believe that Churchmen, and especially Church dignitaries are very unfit to be legislators; and therefore I should be very much pleased to see any departure from the House of Lords of any Church dignitaries. These being my opinions on the Main Question before us, I still wish to address to the House some considerations upon the manner and the arguments by which these propositions have been supported on the present occasion, and also, I may say, of the aim and intentions with which this proposition has been brought forward. One argument advanced in support of this Resolution has been that the present Established Church of Ireland is a badge of conquest as regards the Catholic population of Ireland. Now, this is a proposition that I utterly and entirely deny. The conquest of Ireland — the Norman Conquest of Ireland—was made when England and Ireland were Catholic, and if there be any badge of conquest resulting from the transactions of that time, it is the Catholic Papal Church of Ireland; for, as the right hon. Gentleman himself said, at the time of this conquest Ireland was not in connection with the Papacy, and therefore the Norman conquest, which led to that connection, established as a badge of conquest the Papal Church in Ireland. And, accordingly, I say it is misleading the people of Ireland for us to allege that the present Established Church of Ireland is a badge of conquest. No man would be more ready, and has been more ready, than I to state my utter abhorrence of the
 711 Laughter. 712 713 714 715 716 Warrior,
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is his intention to propose any measure, either separately or as a provision, in the Election Petitions and Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill, for the prevention of bribery at Municipal Elections?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, in reply, that communications had been received by the Poor Law Board from Mr. Sullivan, a Roman Catholic priest of Gravesend, and two others of the same parish, respecting the subject referred to. The Gravesend guardians, having advertised for a porter, selected two applicants from those who responded; only one, however, attended, and he was a Roman Catholic, named Duggan. The guardians, therefore, postponed the election. The hon. Member was quite right in supposing that the only apparent reason for Duggan's rejection was his religion; but it should be stated that the resolution was unanimous on the part of the guardians. It was, perhaps, needless to add that the regulations of the Poor Law Board contained nothing to prevent the election of a Roman Catholic as a porter to a workhouse;
 705
 MR. OSBORNE : Whatever differences of opinion may exist in this House as to the question before us, I think that every Gentleman, on whatever side he may sit, must be rejoiced at the rising talent that has been displayed in this debate. I think no one could have listened to the speech of my hon. Friend and representative the Member for the county of Tipperary (Captain White) without thinking that a very good and promising Member has been added to this House. I will go further, and
 772 773 774 "The Irish Protestant Church, as a badge of slavery, must be and will be utterly put down. The national feeling of Ireland is influenced by a sense of injury and of oppression; if you wish to tranquillize Ireland you must remove the badge.', 775 776 777 Richard the Third. "What says Lord Stanley? Will he bring his power?" "My Lord, he doth deny to come." 778 "Prepare thy battle early in the morning… I, as I may—that which I would I cannot— With best advantage will deceive the time, And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms. But on thy side I may not be too forward." 779 780 781 "Church revenues are partly public and partly private; an advowson coming into the hands of an individual seems to be as much his property as his house." "To make better provision for the appropriation of moneys arising from lands known as the clergy reserves, by rendering them available"—what for?—"for municipal purposes." "Whereas it is desirable to remove all semblance of connection between Church and State" 782 783 Regium Donum 784 "In England the Roman Catholics are a sect; in Ireland they are a nation. This fundamental difference must affect every reason and every measure concerning them." "It is a terrible thing for Government to put its confidence in a handful of people of fortune separate from the rest. A full levy is not a complete garrison, nor the disarmament of a province the destruction of disaffection." "The greatest cause of misery in Ireland was identity of institutions with England; the very primary and most important institution of all—the union of Church and State—was opposed by the Irish people. He ventured to lay down as a principle that the Government of Ireland should be on a system the reverse of England." "His principles were Tory, the natural principles of the democracy of England." I believe it. He further said—"They might not be the principles
 785 "The Roman Catholic clergy of said kingdom shall, and may from henceforth for ever, hold and enjoy all and all such lands, tenements, tithes, &c., whatsoever by them respectively enjoyed within this kingdom, or by them at any time since 23d October, 1641, and such lands, &c., belonging to the clergy within this kingdom, other than such as are actually enjoyed by His Majesty's Protestant clergy." 786
 MR. LOWE : I have listened to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) with great pleasure, for two reasons: first, because he promised us his vote; and, next, because I derived additional conviction of the strength of our case from finding that his feelings in our favour are so deeply rooted that he is about to give us that vote in despite of every argument that he used against us. I will not occupy the
 729 730 "If, in England, for three million souls 'tis conceded Two proper-sized Bishops are all that is needed; 'Tis plain, for the Irish half-million who want 'cm, One-third of a Bishop is just the right quantum." par excellence, 731 conditio sine quâ non 732 "The Question must be dealt with in a very different spirit from that which advocates entire abolition."—[3  Hansard, "Confiscation is the worst proposal that can be made, either as regards the Church or the land."—[ Ibid. "The despoiled, if confiscation were agreed on, would feel much more sorely than those to whose position they were brought; and I am sure that the statesman who proposed to give peace to Ireland at the expense of the Irish Church, would create few additional friends of British rule, and would not fail to alienate a large and influential party to whom we are bound by every tie that is snered."—[p. 1394.] 733 734 735 "As for the clergy, we can easily get rid of them with condensation. They are merely there for the benefit of others; they are public  employés, seriatim, 736 737 "Such expressions of feeling on the part of influential bodies of my countrymen are encouragingly opportune. We have heard something lately of the crisis of Ireland. In my opinion the crisis of England is rather at hand; for the purpose is now avowed, and that by a powerful party, of destroying that sacred union between Church and State which has hitherto been the chief means of our civilization, and is the only security for our religious liberty." 738 "Liquidis in nubibus arsit arundo, Signavitque viam flammis, tenuesque recessit Consumpta in ventos." 739 The Times 740 "We have made up our minds to two things; the first of these is that an alteration in the  status, 741 "That the ideas and intentions of Her Majesty's Government objecting to the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman shall not be misconstrued or misunderstood either here or out-of-doors."—[3  Hansard, "Probably there is not one educated person in a hundred who will stand up and pretend that the Irish ecclesiastical arrangements as they exist are of altogether a satisfactory kind."—[3  Hansard, "Lastly comes an idea which finds great favour, I believe, among a portion of Irish Churchmen, although I am bound to say I do not think it is one that a reformed Parliament is likely to adopt—the scheme, I mean, of leaving untouched the Protestant endowments as a whole, but re-distributing them so as to get rid of the scandal which everybody admits to exist—of sinecure livings and empty churches."—[3  Hansard, 742 "We affirm two propositions, one of which I conceive to require no proof—namely, that some modification"— "That some modification, be it what it may, in the status of the Irish Church Establishment is to all appearance inevitable."—[ Ibid "Then it is asked, 'Why not meet the Motion by a direct negative, or by the Previous Question?' Simply for this reason: either one or the other of those courses would imply, or might possibly be considered as implying, that we objected to this question being dealt with at all, in any form or at any time. And that is a misconstruction against which we reasonably desire to guard."—[p. 506.] 743 "He would never consent to leave the Protestants of Ireland without an Established and an endowed Church," and declared that "he would be no consenting party to a policy which carried to the extent to which the right hon. Gentleman carried it, must result in a religion betrayed and a country ruined."—[3  Hansard, 744 "Supposing we had met these Resolutions by a direct negative—which, as far as I am personally concerned, I should be, and am, perfectly prepared to do."—[3  Hansard, "I will give the right hon. Gentleman no other pledge than this, that we will act in accordance with the former part of the Amendment. … But it you ask us to 20 further, I will say, at least, for myself, as I have upon former occasions, that I will not be a party to a measure for disestablishing the Irish Church.—[ Ibid, 745 746 Ironical cheers. 747 748
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, If he can say when the Merchant Shipping Consolidation Bill will be introduced?
 MR. HORSFALL  remarked that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire had carefully abstained, in the speech with which he had introduced these Resolutions, from speaking of the United Church of England and Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman had throughout spoken of the Irish Church, or the Anglican communion in Ireland. Now, in his judgment, things ought to be called by their proper names, and therefore he called the Church the United Church of England and Ireland. This was a matter of considerable importance; because if merely the "Irish Church" were spoken of, and legislation went according to numbers, there could be no doubt that the Roman Catholics of Ireland formed the large majority of the population, whereas, if the term "United Church of England and Ireland" were used, it was equally certain that, in the two countries taken together, there was an overwhelming preponderance of Protestants. As to the object of bringing forward these Resolutions at the present juncture, he would trouble the House with a short extract from a letter addressed by Earl Grey to the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright). Earl Grey said—
 "We hear it openly avowed that this move was wanted in Older to re-unite the Liberal party. Those who compose that party are, it is said, so divided in their opinions that something of this sort was absolutely necessary to bring them together, and that a flag has thus been raised under which they will all rally. I would venture to ask you whether you really think that this is justifiable? Is it right that Ireland should wantonly be made the battle-field of parties?" 749 Hansard, The State in its Relations with the Church, "Probably there never was a time in the history of our country when the connection between the Church and the State was threatened from quarters so manifold and various as at present. The infidel, with sagacious instinct, following out all that tends to the general diminution of religious influences; the Romanist, who, in order to erect his own structure of faith and discipline, aims first at the demolition of every other, and who seems in general to deem us so involved in fatal error, that we must pass through the zero of national infidelity in order to arrive at truth; the professor of political economy, who considers this connection as a visionary theory, only mischievously known by its tendency, when obtruded into practice, to interfere with what he deems the substantial interests of mankind; the democrat, who naturally desires to strip Government of all its highest duties, and leave to it the performance of no more than mechanical functions; of all these it was, perhaps, on the whole, to be expected that they should unite upon any seemingly favourable occasion to press for their common object; and they have so united." "A common form of faith binds the Irish Protestants to ourselves, while they, upon the other hand, are fast linked to Ireland: and thus they supply the most natural bond of connection between the countries. But if England, by overthrowing their Church, should weaken their moral position, they would be no longer able—perhaps no longer willing—to counteract the desires of the majority, tending, under the direction of their leaders—however, by a wise policy, revocable from that fatal course—to what is termed national independence—" 750 s. d.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he had not yet received the detailed information he had expected on this point, and therefore he would not further refer to it. To the objection of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) that the Church of England was a missionary Church, he replied that the Church of Rome was also a missionary Church, and in support of his statement he would mention the case of a Roman Catholic priest who was sent to establish a Church at Bodmin, although there were no Roman Catholics in the place. The project in that instance failed, and the Church was now shut up. Looking
 751 The Times "Assuming absenteeism to be an evil, and believing that one of the most real and tangible wants of Ireland is that of resident men of education and position, especially in the more remote districts, it is well to remember that, putting aside for a Moment the religious aspect of the case, you have, as matters stand now, in the Protestant clergymen an educated gentleman, with a certain income, residing in every parish in Ireland. Those who are acquainted with the poorer and less civilized parts of this country, and who remember the sad years of the famine, will bear me out when I say that it would not be easy to exaggerate the amount of good done at that trying time by the Protestant clergy." 752 "If the Irish Church is doomed to fall, happier is the man who shall perish in its ruins than he who survives the fall."
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether cruelties are enacted in Crete at present, such as took place while the insurrection was raging in full force; whether tranquillity may be considered to be now re-established; and if, not, whether the British Government exercise any influence in favour of the Christian population?
 MR. MORRISON , in moving that this Bill be read a second time, explained, that in 1866 a hybrid Committee of the House was appointed upon this subject. On its Report the Government founded the Bill of last Session, which was referred to a Committee of five, and, after a lengthened and expensive inquiry, miscarried at a time when the representatives of the companies and those of the public appeared to have come as nearly as possible to an agreement. It was therefore thought expedient that the Bill should be re-introduced this year, and this Bill was in the main a reprint of last year's Bill, with certain alterations. Very grave exceptions had been taken to certain parts of the Bill, and there had been a conference with the representatives of the gas companies of the metropolis, who had determined to offer no opposition, on condition that the promoters consented to certain changes. On the part of the promoters he was ready to consent to these changes, which involved the striking out of a large portion of new matter incorporated with the Bill. These changes embraced the clauses dealing with the amalgamation of the existing companies, the supply of gas in bulk, the substitution of permissive for compulsory powers of purchase, and the damages to be paid by a company in case of accident. There was already an Order of the House that Bills having reference to the supply of gas to the metropolis should be referred to the same Committee; three Bills had been read a second time and referred, and it was therefore desirable that this Bill should be similarly dealt with at once. He moved that it be read a second time, and to-morrow he would move that it be committed, in order to insert the Amendments agreed upon, and have the Bill reprinted.
 MR. WATKIN  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the Boundary Bill will be printed and circulated before the adjournment of the House?
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any steps were taken to prevent the outbreak of Cholera in the Mediterranean in 1867, in accordance with the Report of the British Cholera Commissioners, October, 1866, on
 704
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether he has noticed a paragraph in a Medical Journal relating to a recent outbreak of small-pox at Woolwich, in which it is stated that "four new" and "eleven fresh cases were vaccinated;" and how this statement is to be reconciled with that of the Vice President of Council on Education, on the Vaccination Bill of 1867, that "small-pox is absolutely preventable by vaccination?"
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, the hon. Member for the University of Dublin gave the House an elaborate account of the vast number of churches that had been built, and of the large sums that had been expended in repairing the houses of worship used by the Anglican clergy. The vast expenditure he thus described he used as an argument against disestablishing and disendowing the State Church in Ireland; but he omitted all reference to the fact that these churches were nearly empty on each Sabbath day, and to the not less important fact that, with the noble exception of the unfollowed example set by the Member for the City of Dublin, the sums expended on the building, the extending, and the repairing of Anglican churches in Ireland were paid not by the Anglicans themselves, but from the State funds. ["No!"] He begged to assure the hon. Gentlemen who said "No," that if they took the trouble to investigate the facts they would find that on an average there were more than £50,000 a year paid for the building and repairing of the Protestant, Churches of Ireland by the Irish Ecclesiastical Commissioners. The figures for 1864 were £51,000, for 1865 £52,000, and for 1866 £71,000, and the series of reports would show that £50,000 a year was below the average cost of fabrics to the public; and he was at a loss to know upon what pretence the Irish Church could lay claim to consideration, because of the moneys spent on Church buildings, when all that money was supplied from the national Church Fund, and not by the members of the Anglican faith. The hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall), who preceded the hon. Member for Dublin University on the same side, entered into a discussion on the difference between parishes, of which there 2,400 in Ireland, and benefices, of which there were 1,510.
 758 759 s. d. 760 761 Put your trust in God, my boys, But keep your powder dry, 762 "The recent debates on the Irish Church in both Houses of Parliament have dearly shown that one of the chief questions to be determined on the assembling of the Reformed Parliament will
 763 "The Church Institution have therefore determined to solicit subscriptions to a special Irish Church Defence Fund, which will be devoted to diffusing sound and correct information in all available quarters by lectures and otherwise." Cheers. 764 765 766 767
 MR. MOWBRAY  replied that Kilpec had at present no local claim. All the property in the parish in the possession of the Commissioners came within the special exception contained in the 12th
 702
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Sir, I have not received any complete Estimate from Bombay, but I have received several accounts more or less full, which I communicated to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. These accounts were carefully collated with the information which we had in this country; and it was upon the foundation of these accounts that my right hon. Friend gave his Answer a little time since with regard to the probable cost of the Expedition. I do not think the House would understand the accounts from Bombay; but in two or three weeks the Budget will, I hope, be brought forward, and by that time I trust we shall be able to give a tolerably accurate Estimate of the cost of the Expedition. It may interest the House, however, if I mention that Sir Robert Napier expected to be at Theodore's camp, which was about twenty-five miles from Magdala, by the end of March; and, as far as I can judge from the telegrams I have received from him, that expectation was likely to be fulfilled, so that we may expect by the time we re-assemble after the holidays, or within a few days afterwards, to hear the result of his coming into the immediate vicinity of Theodore. Probably by that time we shall know when the Expedition will begin to return; and, under these circumstances, I think it will be more convenient that we should delay any further communication regarding the Estimates until we are in a position, after the holidays, to speak with some confidence.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : No one can have listened to the speeches made on the other side during this debate without feeling that, at all events, by most of the various speakers, two objects have been held in view. The primary object of these Resolutions and of those who have spoken in support of them has been to rally the Liberal party and put out the present Government. The secondary object has been to pass Resolutions for the disestablisment of the Protestant Church in Ireland. I must indeed except from my description some of the speeches to which we have listened to night, delivered by hon. Gentlemen opposed to our views. I except particularly the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) and the speech we have just heard from the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne). Theses speeches, though we may find much in them to disagree with, have, at all events, been speeches addressed to the merits of the question nominally before us. But I think no one can have failed to observe—especially no one who heard the speech delivered in the early part of the evening by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) — that very great stress is laid on what is assumed to be inconsistency and weakness in the position of the Government, and on the course taken by this or that or the other Member of the Ministry, and that this has been made quite as much the question as that which is nominally before us. Now, we who have been for some time in this House cannot complain if our opponents seek a suitable occasion to rally their party and bring about a change of Government. Nothing, indeed, can be more legitimate or more natural; and it is no matter of complaint on our part that, if they think that can bring about such a change, they should select a subject on which they are of opinion their party is likely to be united. I venture, however, to say that when the battle-field which they have chosen is one of such enormous Imperial importance as this, and when it involves interests of such great magnitude, it was the duty of those who chose that battle-field to consider at all events the nominal subject they brought forward for discussion in a more respectful and a more serious manner than the framers of these Resolutions have done. We have no objection to a great party
 787 788 789 790 791 792 793 794 795 796 proximus ardet 797
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that the Papers referred to by the hon. Member had long been ready, and might have been distributed some time ago; but it had been thought prudent to delay issuing them in consequence of some important Correspondence with the French Government on the subject, which would render the information more complete. As soon as this additional matter was ready—which he hoped would be at no distant date—no time should be lost in placing the whole in the hands of Members.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  replied that, in consequence of his hon. Friend's Notice, he had communicated with the person who had been engaged to draft this Bill, and who had been unexpectedly delayed, owing to circumstances of a private nature, and by no fault of his own. That gentleman had informed him that he was giving up other business in order to devote himself to the work of consolidation, and drawing new clauses; and that he hoped to have completed his work before the Session was much farther advanced.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he wished to ask the Judge Advocate, Whether the Ecclesiastical Commissioners admit that the benefice of Kilpec, in the county of Hereford, has a local claim upon them for a grant in augmentation; and, if so, why no grant has yet been made to the benefice, although its income does not exceed £10 per annum?
 MR. GLADSTONE : I do not know whether I am justified in interposing between the House and my right hon. Friend (Mr. Horsman) who had risen at the same moment, but I feel bound to make a protest against the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, though upon one ground only. I do not intend to persist in my opposition should the right hon. Gentleman not be disposed to give way, nor to press the question to a division. The ground of my opposition to the Motion is
 828 829
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he intended to adhere to the Resolution which he had expressed with regard to the Reform Bills
 830
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the Civil Service Estimates would be proceeded with immediately on the re-assembling of Members after the holydays.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  stated, in reply, that John Downy had been arrested simply because he was suspected of having been engaged in treasonable practices, and that the circumstances related by the hon. Member, even if they had occurred, would not in any way have influenced the case. He was informed, however, that a conditional order of discharge in the case referred to had been made out the day before yesterday.
 MR. BUXTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been called to a letter, dated Zulla, March 4, which has appeared in the newspapers, and which states that the Turkish and Egyptian Drivers had been left for days without food or water, were flogged daily by fifties, and were finally sent off, almost in a state of nakedness, though the weather was very cold; and, whether he will make inquiries into the truth of this story, and ascertain who was responsible for the management of these drivers?
 MR. GLADSTONE : I cannot avoid, Sir, saying that I think the multiplication of Questions of this class is of a nature not very consistent with the usages of this House. When we are engaged in the discussion of a question, I think it is better that all explanations should be given within the time which is appropriated to that discussion; and I hardly know whether I am justified, after having answered the Question of the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) last evening, in answering this. It would, however, be discourteous to remain silent under the Question that has been put by the hon. Member; but I hope the Answer will not be drawn into a precedent. I venture to say that I think the Question shows that the hon. Gentleman has not given his mind to the statement I endeavoured to make to the House—namely, that I do not intend to propose—and I consider it wholly beyond the limits of my duty to propose—any plan for settling or disposing of the question of Ecclesiastical Endowments in Ireland. I have ventured to state to the House, and, to a certain extent, to ask the assent of the House to certain principles and leading propositions which, it struck me, ought to be included in such a plan. The only propositions
 836
 LORD STANLEY : The reports which I have received as to the recent disturbances ascribe them, not to any political cause, but to discontent among a portion of the mining population, caused by a recent reduction in the rate of wages. I have not heard anything about money being distributed among the insurgents; indeed I apprehend that it would be hardly proper to speak of them as insurgents; the whole thing appears not to have been so much an insurrection as a riot, though, undoubtedly, a riot on a rather serious scale.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : The language with which the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down concluded his speech, is the same as was uttered thirty-three years ago in this House on the same subject. Then, as now, this question of the Irish Church had become a great party cry; then, as now, the parties in the State were ranged on either side, and the same words were used as now—namely, that the Irish Church is doomed. Since then the party opposite have been for a long time—during twenty-eight years — in Office, with majorities sometimes large, sometimes moderate; but, either from a disinclination to interfere with the matter, or from a feeling that the line laid down and the principle adopted in 1835 were untenable, no action has been taken in the matter. I am rather reluctant to prophecy, but I believe it will be found in future times, when this question comes to be discussed and better known than it is now, the same result will follow; and the Protestant Church in Ireland, though it may be reformed, improved, and amended, and rendered much more in harmony with the requirements of the country and the feelings of the people, will nevertheless remain in its strength and in its purity. I am glad the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down did not repeat in the same terms the charges of inconsistency which have been brought against the Government by former speakers. He seemed
 866 867 868 869 870 871 872 873 874 875 876 877 "It is established against the will of the great
 878 879 "But this, also, is all past and over. The very penal laws, last relics of that bloody business, are with the days before the Flood. And, though it be true that the mode of planting this Established Church of Ireland — first enthroning a whole hierarchy of Archbishops and Bishops and then importing clergy for the Bishops, and parishioners for the clergy — was of all recorded apostolic missions the most preposterous; though the rapacity of those missionaries was too exorbitant and their methods of conversion too sanguinary; yet now, among the national institutions, among the existing forces that make up what we call an Irish nation, the Church, so far as it is a spiritual teacher, must positively be reckoned. Its altars, for generations, have been served by a devoted body of clergy; its sanctuaries thronged by our countrymen; its prelates, the successors of those very Queen's Bishops, have been among the most learned and pious ornaments of the Christian Church. Their stories are twined with our history, their dust is Irish earth, and their memories are Ireland's for ever. In the little church of Dromore, hard by the murmuring Lagan, lie buried the bones of Jeremy Taylor; would Ireland be richer without that grave? In any gallery of illustrious Irishmen, Usher and Swift shall not be forgotten; Derry and Cloyne will not soon let the name of Berkeley die; and the lonely tower of Clough Oughter is hardly more interesting to an Irishman as the place where Owen Roe breathed his last sigh than by the imprisonment within its walls of the mild and excellent Bishop of Kilmore.  Sit mea anima cum Bedello! 880 881
 VISCOUNT HAMILTON  said, that with a few words by way of explanation, he should support the Amendment of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. The time was inopportune for any such a measure as was proposed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone). A Commission of Inquiry was at present sitting upon the subject of the Irish Church. The Report of that Commission was anxiously looked forward to, and would shortly be before the House; and to such modifications and improvements as were suggested by the Commissioners he would be prepared to give his most earnest consideration. He would, however, listen to no suggestion for the destruction of one of our most venerable institutions. Whether he looked at the time or the circumstances, the matter or the form, the spirit or intention of the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman, he should give them his inflexible opposition. The question was one of universal importance to Ireland; but connected, as he was, by property, residence, and feeling with the North of Ireland, he might be excused if he confined his observations to the province of Ulster. He asserted that the English Church in Ireland was a blessing to the community at large, and an advantage, instead of an injury, to the Roman Catholics. That this was their opinion was proved by the cordiality and good-will which the warm-hearted peasantry of that
 887 History of England 888
 MR. GLADSTONE : Mr. Speaker, I cannot help, Sir, making the observation—and I trust it is one at least as much within the bounds of Parliamentary courtesy as some to which we have recently listened—that there are portions of the discursive speech of the right hon. Gentleman of which, with every effort on my part, I fail to discern the relevancy; and that there are other portions of it of which it does not seem to me a severe judgment to say that they appear to be due to the influence of a heated imagination. Sir, I can assure the House that, at this hour of the morning, I shall endeavour to confine myself to the main issue, and shall dismiss with a very few words of observation subjects that in the treatment of the right hon. Gentleman occupied a considerable time. His elaborate justification of the Motion of the noble Lord by reference to precedents, I think, does not call for detailed reply, inasmuch as he was mistaken in all the references that he made. He said it was intolerable
 925 926 927 928 929 930 931 932 Ironical cheers from the Ministerial Benches. 933 934 935 The Morning Herald 936 937 "There would not, I believe, be any objection to make all Churches equal; but the result must be secured by elevation and not by confiscation." 938 "You and your Erastian principles are crumbling into dust. Will you adopt the Pantheistic principle? I have unfaltering confidence in the stability of the Church; but the dancer which threatens it is—What? Nonconformity? No. It is the connection between the Church and the State. This places it under the control of the House of Commons, which is not necessarily of the same communion. Leave the Church to itself, and it will shrink from no contest." "I believe the question to be, Will you sever the Church from the State, or will you endow the Roman Catholic Church? For my own part, I believe the Protestants of Ireland would say, 'Sever the connection between Church and State, and do not endow the Roman Catholics.'" 939 940 941
 MR. DIMSDALE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the Government intend to take any steps towards facilitating the retirement of Field Officers of the Indian Army?
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he wished to ask the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, Whether, Parliament having required a Report from the Board of Trade as to their opinion upon certain Bills, and the Board of Trade having reported their opinion unfavourably to them, the Board of Trade intend taking any steps to prevent the following Bills passing into Law in their present shape,—namely, the Tower Subway Bill, the Fareham and Netley Railway Bill, the Dungarvan Harbour Bill, the North British Railway (Forth River Railway) Bill, and two Isle of Wight Railway Bills?
 MR. GRANT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he could afford any information with regard to the riots in Belgium, whereby ten men lost their lives, and a large number were seriously wounded?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : I am conscious, Sir, that I am rising at a disadvantage after the gorgeous eloquence of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge); still, I venture to occupy the House for a short time while I
 853 sub-stantia amor 854 855 856 857 858 859
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire has moved that we should go into Committee of the Whole House upon the
 894 895 896 897 898 899 900 ad unguem. 901 "And hails with horrid melody the moon." 902 Loud cries of and 903 904 905 906 907 908 Cheers. 909 910 911 912 913 914 915 916 917 918 919 920 The Times
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Member for Calne said it was sent to  The Times, The Times.
 MR. DISRAELI : No; you only said that it appeared there the same morning as the Amendment of my noble Friend.
 MR. DISRAELI : You mis-dated the letter, you mis-quoted the letter, and you misconceived the letter. I am now speaking upon the connection between Church and State. That letter exactly expresses the feelings which influence me at this moment; and when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne says that I wrote a letter trying to excite the Protestant feelings of the country, let the letter be judged by what it contains, and by nothing more. What was said by the right hon. Gentleman was totally inconsistent with what was said by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter respecting this letter. There is nothing about Protestant feeling in it; and with regard to the right hon. Member for the City, who says I wrote a letter declaring that the Church was in danger—the City churches may be in danger—but he totally misunderstood what I wrote. I did not say that the Church was in danger. I said the State was in danger. Terminate the connection between the State and the Church;
 921 Opposition Cheers. Cries of from the Opposition. 922 Cries of and a laugh. 923 "That they should step aside and form a solid front. They had a Church question to deal with as well as the Irish people; and he did not see why Wales should be contented any longer to carry the burden put upon her. The Welsh had their Church question also; and it would be impossible for" myself, "Mr. Gladstone, or Mr. Bright to settle the Irish Church question without feeling at the same time that the present state of things in Wales could no longer exist." "It was almost impossible to obtain freehold land in Wales, where the population had doubled itself during the last thirty years. He could see no justice in that state of things. He could not see why the great landowners should become the possessors of all the improvements effected by commerce, industry, and skill." 924 Laughter.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is the habit of my hon. Friend to ask Questions which do not comply certainly with the conditions of social life and, as far as my experience in Parliament is concerned, scarcely with those of political life. I am at a loss to ascribe any definite meaning to this Question of my hon. Friend. At one time I thought that probably some one of whom he had been making similar inquiries had been practising on his frank intelligence. Then I thought it might be that he was made the instrument of bringing before the consideration of the Government the claims of some particular friend. The third interpretation I put upon it was that perhaps my hon. Friend desired to remind us that, should it be the intention of the Government to offer any advice to the Crown to confer titles of dignity, and especially the title of Baronet, there was one person who had paramount claims to such a favour. It is always my anxious desire to give the utmost information in my power to the House when any hon. Member, in the exercise of one of his most important privileges, interrogates the Government; but I will ask the House, in its candour to weigh the language in which this inquiry is made, and to sympathize with me in the trouble which grappling with so abtruse a Question entails upon me. The hon. Gentleman asks me whether it is the intention of the Government to advise the Crown to confer a title of dignity on one of the Members for Thetford, and whether the honour is due to any arrangement respecting the representation of that borough? Now, Sir, I think the House will agree that when inquiries of this nature are made of a personal and delicate kind they should at least be precise. No hon. Gentleman is justified in making such inquiries unless he is in possession of some information. How am I to understand to whom my hon. Friend refers by "one of the Members for Thetford?" I have inquired into the representation of the borough of Thetford, and find that it is represented by my right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, who has recently appeared before the constituency; and therefore the only interpretation I can put upon this inquiry is that the hon. Gentleman wishes to know whether, in order to induce the Lord Advocate to stand for the borough
 833
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) addressed to me yesterday an inquiry, respecting the adjournment of the House for the holydays; to which I replied that it might be convenient to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman that the adjournment should not be moved until after the conclusion of the debate. From what has reached me since, however, I am led to suppose that it would be for the general convenience of the House that the adjournment should be moved at once; although I would not press the Motion now if the right hon. Gentleman strongly objected to it. The Motion I have placed upon the Paper is that the House, at its rising, do adjourn until Monday, the 20th of April. As far as all human arrangements may be considered certain there can be no doubt that the debate will finish to-night. It is possible that there may be two divisions; but, under any circumstances, the House will divide to-night. The ground is a delicate one to touch upon; but I am sure that, in the present unimpassioned state of the House, I may safely allude to what is likely to happen. Either the right hon. Gentleman will have a majority, or he will be defeated upon his Motion that the House do go into Committee. I wish to inform the House what will be the course of the Government under these circumstances—and, in case of a general agreement on both sides, there is no reason whatever why this Motion should
 827 pro formâ,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  stated that he should vote against going into Committee. He wished it to be understood that he would not consent to the transfer of any portion of the Church property for the benefit of any other religious body.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of the Government to advise the Crown to confer
 832
 MR. REARDEN  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, The nature of the charge under which Mr. John Downy, a merchant tailor of Dawson Street, Dublin, has been arrested and imprisoned for the last two months; whether it be true that detectives called upon him for information respecting a person named "Lennon," and on his asserting his ignorance of anything respecting the said "Lennon," they threatened to arrest him, and subsequently returned and did take him to prison; and, whether it be true that Mr. Downy's wife and eight children are reduced to a state of starvation in consequence?
 MR. CARDWELL : At a much earlier period of this debate, Sir, I should have attempted to catch your eye, and, with
 889 890 891 892 893
 MR. HORSMAN : I do not intend to oppose the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman; but I must say that I think the course he proposes to take upon this matter is a very unusual one. When the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) brought forward his Resolutions, the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister said that a very serious and solemn issue was raised, an announcement that was followed by cheers from his supporters. But now, after the question has been debated for four nights, Her Majesty's Government come forward and state that, whatever may be the issue of the debate, and whatever the decision of the House, they will treat it with such indifference, if not with such contempt, that they will not give it even a respectful consideration. I recollect that last year when the right hon. Gentleman was out-voted on a minor question of Reform, he took two days to consider the course that the Government should take upon the matter. I think that out of respect for the House the Government should have waited to take into consideration the new position in which they may find themselves. They might have anticipated the possibility—however unreasonable it may be—of defeat; and have been prepared to announce whether they had arrived at the conclusion that it was for the public interest, and consistent with their own character, that they should carry out the decision of the House.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, he did not think that the proposals of the Government were at all adequate to meet the serious state of things that existed. The great evil in Ireland was the religions ascendancy of a small minority over the rest of the nation. The only cure was the establishment of religious equality. When it was stated that the existence of the Irish Church was not regarded by the Roman Catholic population as a grievance, and when it was sought to prove this assertion by showing that there was not much complaint made in Ireland against the Establishment, it should be remembered that the Irish people had not forgotten what took place thirty years ago, when they attempted to agitate the question. The fact was, that the Irish people believed that if they agitated they would be punished; and though they also knew that if they remained quiet their attitude would be construed into indifference, they preferred the latter alternative to the former. The Church Establishment in Ireland violated the very principle of an Establishment, for it had nothing in common with the great body of the people, who refused to receive its teaching. It had not answered the purpose for which it was intended. It had not converted the Irish people to the religion which it taught; but it had the effect of alienating their minds from the State, and from the belief which was supported by the aid of the State. In fact, while it had not made them Protestants, it had made them bad citizens. The noble Earl the Chief Secretary for Ireland (the Earl of Mayo) had said that they must beware lest they alienated an influential class, bound to this country by a sacred tie; but he should like to know what peculiar tie bound that class more than any other to this country? It appeared to him that if the Government evinced a disposition to do justice to all parties, they would hear few Complaints from Ireland. Lord Cornwallis, the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland at the time of the passing of the Act of Union, had left on record his opinion of the party which the noble Earl had said had such peculiar claims on the country. Lord Cornwallis's opinion was, that if the Minister of the Crown mistook that violent and prejudiced party for the people, and threw himself into their hands, no advantage would be derived from the Union. Justice must be done to all, and no one had a right
 882 Quarterly Review
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Pardon me, I said, and said most distinctly, that the Government would offer every opposition to such a Resolution as that of the right hon. Gentleman; and that they would not take any part in the disestablishment or disendowment of the Irish Church.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, a Bill on the subject was in course of preparation; but he did not think it would be wise to submit it to the House without consulting with those who had given much attention to it, nor did he think it would be desirable to bring forward a question likely to give rise to so much discussion at a late period of the Session.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the fact was that, many years ago, two plays, which were supposed to be doing a great deal of harm—one of them named  Oliver Twist Jack Sheppard
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  was understood to say, that he believed there would be no difficulty in making the amendment alluded to by the hon. Gentleman. With regard to the second Question he was informed that there were no salaries charged by Law on the fees taken in the Courts mentioned.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce this Session any Bill for the further continuance of Turnpike Trusts, of which the original
 834
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to advert to the Answer given him yesterday by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, and for the purpose of doing so he should move the adjournment of the House. The Question he asked the right hon. Gentleman was, Whether he was prepared, in the event of his Resolutions being carried, to support the repeal of the Maynooth Grant? The Answer he received from the right hon. Gentleman was, that he should be prepared—or something equivalent to that—to relieve the Consolidated Fund of the charge for Maynooth. The right hon. Gentleman, however, was pleased to say that he would reply more fully to the Question at the close of the debate. The point, however, to which he (Mr. Whalley) wished to call attention was one that greatly affected the feelings of many persons who were watching this debate. The right hon. Gentleman would please to observe that he had not answered the Question which he had put to him. He took no interest in the question of the Consolidated Fund, or whether it was or was not to be charged with the payment of the Maynooth Grant. What he desired to know was, whether the Act for the endowment of Maynooth College, taking that institution out of the control of Parliament, was to be repealed or not? He thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the courtesy of his reply; but he regretted that his feelings and his sense of duty obliged him to ask for a more satisfactory explanation. He trusted that in his reply at the close of the debate the right hon. Gentleman
 837
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Treasury have considered the Clauses as to fees in the Land Writs Registration (Scotland) Bill (Clauses 13, 22, 23), the Titles to Land Consolidation (Scotland) Bill (Clauses 60, 63, 102, 147, 148, 178, &c.), and the Court of Session (Scotland) Bill (Clause 13), and whether they will be amended so as to require all fees to be paid into the Exchequer; and, why some of the fees levied in Scotland by these Courts and departments were omitted from the Return, No. 223, of Session, 1867?
 MR. STANSFELD  thought the issue between Her Majesty's Government and themselves had by this time become sufficiently clear. It was true the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for India, and some of his Colleagues, alluded to the Resolutions of his right hon. Friend as vague and unsatisfactory; and if he remembered rightly, the right hon. Baronet went so far as to say that those Resolutions proposed the minimum of that which would be sufficient if they were successful to oust the Government, and intimated  ex cathedrâ 860 861 862 863 "If I could do anything to bring back love and concord, Heaven knows how many sacrifices I should be ready to make to attain so desirable an object. If justice required that I should give up my dearest prepossessions, and I saw any certainty of arriving at success, I would stand aside." 864 conditio sine quâ non 865
 MR. BRADY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been directed to a paragraph which has appeared in several of the daily papers, to the effect that the Lord Chamberlain had refused to licence a play dramatised by Mr. Oxenford from Mr. Dickens's celebrated work of "Oliver Twist," and that all plays from the same Work were interdicted in London as being offensive to parish beadles; and, whether he approves of the
 835
 MR. COLERIDGE : Although I have meditated on the subject of to-night's debate from time to time as long as I have had anything which I could call a mind, and although for a great number of year I have maintained one and the same conviction, and that as strong a conviction as
 838 Laughter status 839 840 reductio ad absurdum 841 842 843 onus probandi 844 History, 845 "I am bold to tell your honour what I hear of these things, because it is meet you should know them, and because you must be the instrument to redress them. But whensoever any alteration shall happen, let all offices be given to soldiers of experience, and to none others. I would the Queen would also so bestow her bishoprics; for here is scarcely any sign of religion, nor no room for justice till the sword, hath made a way for the law." 846 847 848 Ironical cheers 849 850
 MR. COLERIDGE : I still understand the right hon. Gentleman as I understood him before—namely, that they would offer every opposition to these Resolutions; and that, as a Government, they would take no part whatever in disestablishing the Irish Church. Of course, I have too much respect for the right hon. Gentleman not to accept his assurance that, as long as he remains a member of the Government, no such step will be taken. But I do not see in anything he has stated a contradiction of the statement I have made—that there is no guarantee in anything he has said to the House that the Government of which he is a member may not by-and-by disestablish the Irish Church. ["Oh, oh!"] Well, I shall not enter into a struggle of assertion with the right hon. Gentleman, and probably the fault is mine in not understanding his explanation. We were then enlightened by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for India. Did he do more than criticize the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman, give a great many reasons why we should not go into Committee, and express an opinion which is, no doubt, perfectly true—that when we get into Committee we shall have to deal with a great many extremely difficult points of detail. On the part of another Member of the Cabinet the noble Earl opposite (the Earl of Mayo) there has been hitherto not a little reticence. One would have thought that in his position as Chief Secretary for Ireland he would have been put in the front, but perhaps he will favour us with his views before we have done. I want to know upon what grounds you ask us to stay our hands, and say that we should not proceed to vote upon the question before us? Do you really want information? Is there any information you will have twelve months hence which you have not now? Are the 300 years which have elapsed since the time of Lord Sussex not enough? Are the sixty-seven years which have elapsed since the Act of Union not enough to give you information,
 851 852
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire a Question of which he had given him Notice—namely, Whether, in the arrangements he proposes respecting the Ecclesiastical Endowments of Ireland, he contemplates the maintenance or withdrawal of the Grant given to the Presbyterian and Nonconforming Ministers of Ireland—a Grant commonly called the Regium Donum?
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether he sees any objection to extending to Ireland the provisions of the
 831
 MR. LOWE : The Member for Calne never said so.
 MR. LOWE : I did not say that. On the contrary, I said it appeared the morning before the Amendment appeared.
 MR. LOWE : I said it appeared in  The Times. The Times.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, in reply, that there was no objection that he was aware of to the introduction of such a measure; but, as the English Bill consisted of more than 500 Clauses, he did not think there would be any chance of extending it this Session to Ireland.
 SIR CHARLES LANYON  said, he was unable to express to the House with what indignation the Resolutions of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) had been received by his constituents, and in the North of Ireland generally. Belfast had long been remarkable for its loyalty and its endeavours to put down sedition. Could it be that the House would recompense that attachment to the Throne by the destruction of that which those loyal people valued so highly? Viewing the question without the violent political prejudices of some persons, he sincerely believed it was merely a sentimental grievance. The Resolutions would substitute for it a substantial grievance. The destruction of the Protestant Church in Ireland was merely another step gained in the ladder of Roman Catholic ascendancy, and would be followed by other agitations. In 1826 Dr. Doyle said that, if Roman Catholic Emancipation were conceded, Ireland would become contented and happy; but what had been the history of the country over since? What did the famous Limerick Declaration say? He could not refrain from reading one or two extracts—
 "A land tenure will accomplish something; removal of the Protestant ascendancy, by placing the Protestant Church in the same position before the State as the Catholic Church, will accomplish much; equality in education, and the removal of the anomaly of giving a freedom of education on the condition of people giving up freedom, will do its share, and we will hail any and all of them with thankfulness; but we feel bound to say that, when all of them have been granted, safety from foreign danger, perfect development of home resources, and we repeat, above all, the heart of this country will require nationality." "The very nature of the remedies required to make Ireland rich and contented renders it impossible for a British Parliament to adopt and apply them; and, besides that, home aspirations and the plea for Irish intervention from abroad can never be met unless by restoring Ireland her nationality, re-establishing the Sovereign and the Lords and Commons of Ireland." 884 "If the Protestant Establishment of Ireland were destroyed, the very foundations of public security would be shaken, the connections between England and Ireland dissolved, and the annihilation of private property must follow the ruin of the property of the Church. The two countries must be separated before the Establishment can be abandoned." "I consider the safety of the State as essentially interwoven with the integrity of the Establishment. The Established religion is the child of freedom. Our civil and religious liberties would each of them lose much of their security if they were not so deeply indented each with the other. The Church need not be apprehensive. It is a plant, the growth of 300 years; it has struck its roots into the centre of the State, and nothing short of a political earthquake can overturn it. While the State is safe, it must be so. The Protestant
 885
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War, he had to state that his attention had been drawn to the subject a few days ago by the hon. Member for Derby, and he had in consequence written to Sir Robert Napier to inquire into the truth of the story. He could not but believe that the statement was greatly exaggerated.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that it was considered that the existing arrangements were sufficiently liberal for the purpose, and that it was not considered desirable to re-open the question.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  in reply, said, the duty of the Board of Trade was confined to making these Reports for the information of Parliament, and especially of the Committees to which the Bills were referred. Formerly, the Board of Trade made Reports on all Railway Bills; but those Reports were of little value, though they caused much expense and trouble. They were discontinued last year; and the only Reports now made were in case of Bills which, in the opinion of the Board's professional officers, were likely to affect injuriously tidal waters. The Reports were very carefully made; but, at the same time, they represented merely the opinion of individuals. It was, however, of course competent to the Committees to require the attendance of those officers for the purpose of testing their conclusions, or making further inquiries.
 SIR THOMAS LLOYD  said, that he did not regard this question as one of party, and no party consideration would influence his vote. It was an undoubted fact that the Irish Church was felt in Ireland as a grievance; and if he did not believe that Mr. Gladstone's Resolutions met that grievance or thought that they were framed to attain personal objects, he would not vote for them. An analogy had been attempted to be drawn between the Irish Established Church and the Established Church in Wales, but, speaking from his own experience, he could inform the House that no such analogy existed, because in his part of the kingdom the Nonconformists supported their own churches only, and those who belonged to the Church of England were content to worship in chapels which they built themselves. The Nonconformists were very numerous in Wales, but the Church of England was respected by the great majority of the people of that country; moreover, the Established Church and the Dissenters were connected by the
 886
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he did not agree with the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Smollett) in his views on the subject of irrigation. On the contrary, he believed that such works would be alike profitable to the Government and beneficial to the people of India. He had always contended that works of irrigation ought to be undertaken solely by the Government, and not by private individuals or companies. His reason for holding that opinion was this:—The land in India belonged to the Government and the number of tenants on the land to be irrigated was very great. It was therefore impossible to collect the water rates except by the instrumentality of the Government, and as these works yielded great profit the Government were acting as agents for, and were collecting large sums of money merely to hand over to private individuals. What he had long complained of was the dog-in-the-manger policy of the Government — namely, that they would neither execute the great irrigation works, which were so necessary to the welfare of India themselves, nor allow others to do it. At length, however, the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) made the experiment of granting a great work to the Madras Irrigation Company, and he was disposed to think that, at the time, this was a judicious course, as it afforded the opportunity of comparing the system of private works and Government works. He congratulated the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for India on the conclusions at which he had arrived—namely, that the construction of works of irrigation were of the highest value and importance to the people, and profitable to the Government of India—that it is most advantageous to both that they should be executed by the Government; and that for this purpose they should abandon the uncertain policy hitherto pursued of making reproductive works out of surplus revenue instead of raising public loans for this
 971
 COLONEL SYKES  objected to the assertion of the Under Secretary of State that the governors of the colonies must be autocrats. They could not expect any body of Englishmen to submit to a system of Government which deprived them of all real control over their expenditure. But that was precisely the state of things at present in Ceylon. There was a Legislative Council, but the Government officers by their votes rendered popular control impossible. He would ask, why were these Crown Colonies kept in the hands of the Colonial Office? The answer was, because of the patronage they brought in the appointments of governors, and judges, and others. The hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Watkin) was undoubtedly right in the view he had taken of this matter, and in bringing it before the House.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the reduction now proposed was microscopic. There
 984
 THE CHAIRMAN  called the hon. and gallant Member to order. The Motion before the Committee is to omit an item from Vote 1, and the discussion must be confined to that item.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had expected an explanation from the Secretary to the Treasury in introducing the Estimates. Failing that, he had asked the Speaker whether he (Colonel Sykes) could make his comments when the first Vote was moved, and the right hon. Gentleman had told him that the Chairman of Committees would decide. There was an increase in the Estimates this year of upwards of £1,200,000, and the country should be made aware of the fact.
 THE CHAIRMAN : Order, order!
 COLONEL SYKES : Then, Sir, I shall not speak at all.
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, that as one who had spent much time in Constantinople, he knew of no Vote which the Committee should more readily sanction than this. If the Turks had been left to judge of England's power by what they saw among themselves before the Crimean War, their estimate would have been very low. England had nothing in the country to compare with the handsome buildings of the Russians; and though England's prestige had been lately re-established in the East, he thought it would be only prudent to
 986
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the sum spent on the iron shutters would not be thrown away, as the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. Monk) complained, because they would be used in the new building. Touching the question generally, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere), that the buildings referred to could not be called a palace; they simply formed a country residence of most unpretending character for the British Embassy; and, in answer to the question why they were not pulled down, and replaced by an entirely new and substantial building, he answered that this was precisely what the Government proposed to do, although the operations might extend over two years. At this distance from the locality, which was from personal experience quite unknown to him, he was prepared neither to accept nor reject the proposal referred to by the hon. Member for Middlesex; but he pointed out that, however worthy of attention the suggestion might be, it had no material bearing on the question at issue, because if, on inquiry, it was found prudent to sell surplus land and devote the proceeds to building the houses required, the sale could be effected at any time hereafter, and the Treasury could then recoup itself from the sum realized; the building must be paid for out of a Vote, and then credit might be given for the proceeds of the surplus lands in the Estimates next year. The question before the Committee naturally divided itself into three branches—Was a house at Therapia necessary? Was the present house in a proper state of repair? And, presuming these questions to be answered in the affirmative, was the proposed mode of dealing with the question sufficiently economical? Respecting the first point, he believed there could be no doubt. We had always had a house at Therapia; because Pera was very unhealthy during the summer, and because it would be extremely inconvenient if our Embassy remained at Constantinople during the summer, when the Government of the country and all the other embassies had removed to Therapia. On the second point—a Report received last autumn from the English Ambassador at Constantinople, stated that it would be hardly possible for the gentlemen of the Embassy to continue to inhabit the buildings unless something was done to them; and, as regarded the servants' portion of
 987
 LORD STANLEY  said, even if it were determined that a portion of the land at Therapia ought to be sold with a view of recouping the nation for the expenses incurred in building, it would not the less have been the duty of the Executive to submit this Vote, in order to bring the expenditure under the notice of the House.
 LORD STANLEY : I have no objection to make the inquiry.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he was anxious to consult the convenience of the House, but he did not think this was a case for postponement. The feeling of the Committee seemed to be that the preservation of the house at Therapia was desirable. It was admitted that the premises were tumbling to pieces, and it followed that some part of the expense of re-building ought at once to be voted.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that although it was not usual to ask for specifications, it was the duty of the Minister before proposing a Vote to ascertain that the charge was a proper one. Officers of Engineers were the most expensive gentlemen to be found for the construction of any work, and their employment had cost the country millions. When a Royal Engineer was appointed to
 991
 COLONEL SYKES  wished to have some explanation of the item respecting Consular buildings in China.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the Chinese Government had never parted with the freehold of the land required by the English Government; they had simply let it to us at a rent. It was hardly credible that such large sums could be necessary.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that an Engineer officer had been sent out on a roving commission, who said they would require to expend £179,000, but did not inform them on what they were to lay it out. The Secretary to the Treasury had said that the Committee were pledged to the Vote by what had taken place last year on the subject. Now, he was informed that there was no Estimate of this kind last year. Would they commit themselves to sanction a Vote of £179,000, by voting a portion of it now?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the Committee was left in the dark as to the mode in which this expenditure was to be distributed, as regarded the several Chinese ports. He would suggest that the Papers supplied to the House should state the number of European subjects residing at the places where these Consular buildings were required.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he must point out that in Japan you could hardly hire houses; for you could not hire the houses of the Daimios, and there were hardly any others that were fit for the residence of Europeans. Moreover, the system of hiring instead of building was exceedingly expensive. As the Committee were aware, two new ports were opened at Japan, and when new ports were opened it was necessary to have Consuls and Consular residences. In China we were at present paying £8,000 a year for buildings occupied for Consular purposes, and even then complaints were frequent respecting the accommodation. £8,000 capitalized represented a sum of £200,000, and the expenditure on buildings must not therefore be regarded as wasted, but rather as a reproductive investment.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that there was a very extensive, and he believed a very good Embassy house at Pekin. He did not undertake to say that it might not want repair, nor that some additional buildings might not be required; but there was no intention to undertake building on a large scale there.
 LORD STANLEY  observed that a Return had been moved for which would give the information.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to know whether £15,000 was all that would be required with respect to Consular residences in Japan? Last year the House voted £20,000 for Consular residences in China; and this year the House was told that, because it voted that amount, it bound itself to vote £179,000 for Consular residences in China, for the purpose of completing the business. He wished to know whether the £15,000 now asked for Consular residences in Japan was only a portion of a greater sum, as in the case of the Consular residences in China?
 COLONEL SYKES  wished to know, if it was proposed to erect a new mission-house in Teheran, this never having been considered necessary before? We had had a mission to Teheran for half a century, and our  Chargé d'affaires
 LORD STANLEY  said, this was a great mistake, as there was a mission-house which had been built in the early part of the present century, and the land on which it stood was British property. Of course, it was very unfortunate that houses should tumble down and fall into such a state that they could no longer be inhabited, but so it was. The matter had been inquired into by two engineers on the spot, who reported that the mission premises were partly uninhabitable and partly in need of extensive repairs, and that the site was unhealthy. On these representations it was thought desirable to remove the residence to a somewhat healthier quarter. The old house and land would be sold, and the sum obtained by the sale would defray a considerable part of the expense of the new buildings, which were not intended to be in any way superior.
 LORD STANLEY  said, a conjectural estimate might, no doubt, be furnished of what the land would sell for, but this would be of no practical value, as the price of land at Teheran could not be estimated beforehand, as it might be in London. The old site could not be disposed of till the new house was built.
 LORD STANLEY  said, no doubt it might be possible to keep the present buildings in repair for two or three years longer; but the price of land in Teheran, both for letting and selling, was rising every year. Ten years ago that which it was now proposed to do might have been done much more cheaply. He did not put this as a matter of extreme urgency; but from all the information he had, and the best judgment he could form, he believed the expense would be greater the longer it was delayed.
 THE CHAIRMAN  informed the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Faweett) that if he intended to make his Motion, he must do so before the hon. Member for Middlesex moved his Amendment, as the item to which his Motion refers comes first in the Votes.
 MR. OTWAY  wished to call attention to two inconveniences which attended the visits of the people to Hampton Court Gardens. The first was the small number of seats in the gardens and in Bustier Park. He must say he knew no man who was more disposed to attend to the convenience of the public than the noble Lord, and he hoped he would take this matter
 1008
 THE CHAIRMAN  stated that he Amendment could not be put, inasmuch as it had been proposed to reduce certain items in the Vote. After such proposals had been decided, it was not in the power of any hon. Member to move a reduction Of the Vote itself.
 THE CHAIRMAN  reminded the hon. Member for Portsmouth that his Amendment could not, in any case, have been put, inasmuch as it had been previously proposed to reduce an item in the Vole, and the House had divided on that proposal.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that he had acted under no rule of his own framing, as the following Resolution, agreed to by the House on the 9th of February, 1858, would show—
 "That where it has been proposed to omit or reduce items in a Vote, the Question shall afterwards be put on the Original Vote, or the reduced Vote, as the case may be, without Amendment."
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he might answer the hypothetical difficulty raised by the hon. Baronet by saying that it would be his duty to decide such a question when it arose. Of course if the whole Vote were affirmed it would be too late to move any reduction; but the hon. Baronet had fallen into on error in supposing that any one could move the omission of an entire Vote. There was no such Motion. It would be a mere negation of the Motion that the sum of £200,000 be granted to her Majesty.
 THE CHAIRMAN : If a Motion be made for reducing a Vote, and that be negatived, any other number of Motions may be made afterwards. The hon. Baronet talks of a Motion for the omission of a whole Vote. I say that no such question is put from the Chair. The question is put from the Chair that the whole Vote be granted, and the Member who desires to see it omitted says "No." But the rule is that when once a Motion has been put from the Chair for omitting or reducing an item forming part of a Vote, after that the reduction of the Vote itself cannot be moved. That is the Resolution of February, 1868, and it is in plain and express terms.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the practice of setting forth a great number of items in a Vote had grown up since the Resolutions were adopted, and therefore it might be wise for the House to consider whether some alteration might not be made in the Resolutions. But he did not see what good could be gained by prolonging the present discussion, since they had no power in Committee to alter the Resolutions.
 MR. HEADLAM  did not wish to oppose the second reading, but thought it right to tell Her Majesty's Government that in some parts of the North of England strong objections were entertained to the machinery of the Bill, especially so far as it related to North and South Shields.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that they had been accustomed in that House to some of the older Members, such as the late Colonel Sibthorpe, assuming a certain licence of speech, and using sometimes offensive expressions in which none of the other Members indulged. But he was surprised at the repetition of this by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Smollett), who had employed language in that discussion which it was hardly proper to use in that House." The hon. Gentleman had talked of "adventurers;" and had said that the Madras Irrigation Company was "a great swindle." Upon reflection, he would, he was sure, regret that he had been led into the use of such language. The hon. Member had also attacked by name the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) who was then Secretary of State for India, and under whom the scheme of irrigation had been carried out. But the House knew very well that of all those who were engaged in the conduct of administrative Departments under the Government of Lord Derby there was none more able or more painstaking than the noble Lord who was then Secretary of State for India; and he (Mr. Kinnaird) believed that the noble Lord retained now precisely the same opinion, which he held when in office, as to the wisdom and propriety of promoting works of irrigation. The immense advantage of these works was not so generally admitted at that time as it was now, and therefore the noble Lord deserved the greater credit for what he had done. Was it a proper thing, then that the Gentlemen who had forwarded
 968 "You are aware that, notwithstanding the strong opinions which we hold as to the inconvenience of the arrangement that has been entered into with the Company, it has been our earnest wish to do all in our power to facilitate the operations of the Company, and to act fully up to the spirit of any actual, or implied engagements entered into with them in past years. If it be necessary to adduce any distinct proof of this disposition on the part of the Government of India, we would refer to our recent resolutions to in to this Company the execution of the Soane Canal project, and to make grants of money to aid in the construction of the works in Cuttack, the Company's funds having proved insufficient to secure their prosecution with that activity which, in the altered condition of this province, we deem so desirable. And we may assure Her Majesty's Government that it will continue to be our desire to act in this same manner so long as the present arrangements between the Government and the Company shall be maintained. "But the terrible calamity which has recently fallen on Orissa and Western Bengal has forced upon us the consideration of the question, whether we can any longer with propriety permit the existing arrangements to continue in force, if it be possible to induce the Company to give up their right under their contract. "We entirely disclaim the intention of making any reflection on the Company for the manner in which their operations have been hitherto carried out, or for the mode in which they have raised or
 969 "We may mention, however, that the works have been visited by Colonel Morton, R.E., an officer of great experience in irrigation works, and also by Colonel Nicholls, R.E., the Chief Engineer of Bengal. Both these officers and also Mr. Crommelin, the Superintending Engineer in the service of the Government at Cuttack, agree in stating that the works are good. These statements have not been made on any critical examination nor in any official Report; but we are satisfied that, in a general way, they are correct. In the same way we learn that in point of actual cost—that is, of the actual outlay upon the works themselves—they are cheap. So far, then, we have some grounds for believing that the Government would not pay any extravagant sum in taking over the works as proposed." 970
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  thought that the number of seats in Bushey Park might be advantageously increased; but he must remind hon. Members that additional seats could not be supplied without an expenditure of money. He hoped, if there was a slight increase in the Votes next year to supply this want, no hon. Gentleman would get up and complain of the extravagance of the Government in reference to it. With respect to the observation of the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Guilders), he had been informed that it had been found utterly impossible to throw the whole expense of repairing the lock upon the Conservators, and therefore the Crown had been compelled to contribute its quota proportionately to the benefit it derived from the water supply at Windsor being kept up. With regard to the penny toll on entering the vinery at Hampton Court, he was not ashamed to say that he was not aware of its existence; but now that his attention had been drawn to it he would make inquiries upon the subject.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  explained that, under the Act of 1866, the Conservators of the Thames gave notice that the drainage of Windsor Castle should no longer find its way to the Thames; it was necessary to divert it at a cost of £8,000, and there was every reason to believe that the plan suggested for the purpose would be found to work well. With respect to the sum necessary for the removal of the lock and other works connected with it, the Conservators had applied to the Government for a contribution towards defraying the expense of the works. Their request was that one-half the sum to be expended should be re-paid by Government, in consequence of the importance of the works for the water supply of Windsor Castle. The expenditure was estimated at £11,000, but the Government only proposed to contribute a sum not exceeding £2,500. In addition to that, the Government had been called upon to divert the drainage of Hampton Court Palace from
 1006
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the Question of the hon. Member for Brighton was one to which it would be imsible to give an off-hand answer. It was only after the most minute and careful inquiry that the possibility of adapting Buckingham Palace for the holding of drawing-rooms and levees, and the cost of such an undertaking, could be ascertained; and he was not, therefore, then prepared to give the hon. Gentleman the information for which he asked. In answer to the question put by the hon. Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Bentinck), with respect to the pictures at Hampton Court, he apprehended there could be no doubt that the pictures were the property of the Crown.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he felt it his duty again to advert to the question of Order already raised. If the rule laid down by the Chairman were permitted to stand, it would amount to a complete estopping of their privileges, as it would make it impossible to move anything but the reduction or omission of particular items. This was a question of such importance that the sooner it was brought under the consideration of the House the better, with a view to its being cleared up. In former times, there were no explanatory items; but now these were so numerous that the effect of the rule might be to cause their whole proceedings to be stopped by the most trivial Motion. For instance, if a Member chose to move a trifling reduction, say of £5, on an Estimate and divide the House upon it, no other Member would thereafter be permitted to move the reduction of the Vote, however weighty might be his reasons for so doing. The question was so grave in its nature that he begged the Committee not to proceed further until an explanatory Resolution had been come to by the House.
 Mr. AYRTON  repeated his belief that the rule would place an unreasonable restraint upon the action of Members in Committee of Supply. He insisted on the light of every hon. Member to question the expediency of any vote as a whole. In a Vote of £175,000, there might be, as as in ibis case, an item of £1,219 for "Albert Road." According to the ruling, if one hon. Member who objected to the odd £19 made a motion to that effect, another hon. Member who wished the total amount reduced by £25,000 would be precluded from what was his undoubted right. To object to particular items was unwise, and generally useless; the constitutional policy was to move a general reduction of the amount, leaving it to the Government to reapportion the smaller sum among the different items. The construction now put upon the Resolutions must deprive the Committee of one of its most important powers, and rendered it absolutely necessary that a supplementary
 1012
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when the House next went into Committee of Supply he should move a Resolution to amend the Resolution read from the Chair, and to the effect that any hon. Member should have the power of moving the reduction of the whole Vote, notwithstanding that a Member might previously have moved the reduction of a particular item.
 MR. AYRTON  moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. AYRTON  had always understood that the rules by which the deliberations of the Committees were guided precluded any Member, after any particular item had been decided, to move any reduction in an antecedent item. He had, however, never heard that, after the Committee had decided on particular items, it was incompetent for any hon. Member to move a reduction in the entire Vote, and, as he did not see how their proceedings could be carried on under the rule just laid down, he should take the liberty of moving that the Committee report Progress.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Vote furnished an illustration of the way in which the House drifted into expenditure of this kind. Several years ago a distinct understanding was come to that the Government should never incur expenditure on public works in excess of the amount of the Vote proposed unless the full extent of the intended expenditure was stated. In this matter, last Session, the Government simply proposed a Vote of £20,000 for Consular buildings in China and Japan, and there was no suggestion that they were embarking in further expenditure; and yet it was now said that the Vote of £20,000 was a mere Vote on account, and that they were committed to an expenditure of £179,000.
 MR. AYRTON  suggested, that perhaps his hon. Friend the Member for Gloucester (Mr. Monk) would be satisfied if the Government engaged not to embark in this expenditure till they knew its extent. The history of those buildings at Constantinople was a somewhat curious one. Some years ago a statement was made to the effect that it was necessary to take some means to secure the Ambassador against the danger of being burnt in the conflagrations which sometimes took place in that city. Upon that a house was begun at a sum of £14,000—enough to build a fine mansion; but the work went on until the Government had spent £80,000 and upwards. Then there was £10,000 for furnishing, and finally the expenditure reached £100,000. The amount spent annually in keeping the house in decorative repair was as much as the salary paid to some of our diplomatic agents at minor Courts. We had appealed to the eye of the Turks by providing the largest Embassy house in Constantinople, fine Consular buildings, a prison, and a hospital, and if in addition to all this the Ambassador was to have a country house rivalling the other palaces on the Bosphorus let Parliament first be satisfied that the estimated cost would not be exceeded.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that having spent some time in Ceylon, and having had in former times a pecuniary connection with the island, he felt an interest in its condition. Ceylon was a conquest of the Crown, and whatever might be the opinion of the gentlemen represented by the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Watkin), it was the duty of the Government to take care of the 2,500,000 of Natives, and not of the 3,000 Europeans only. In order to protect the Natives of the island, the supreme Government should be vested in officers who were responsible to the Crown, and not in a mock popular Council, selected from a few commercial European inhabitants. To place the supreme power in the hands of the Natives would only give rise to false hopes, and would be likely to lead to sedition and insurrection.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the plan sent home by Colonel
 989
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the plan had been sent home by Colonel Gordon, an Engineer officer appointed by the late Government to superintend the Consular buildings and other works belonging to this country at Constantinople. The total estimate was £10,000, and, as it was supposed that the building would occupy a year and a half, it was proposed to take a Vote of £6,000 this year, with the intention of following it up next year with a Vote of £4,000.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the alteration in the form of the Estimates this year, in consequence of the passing of the Exchequer Audit Act, made it difficult for hon. Members to follow the Vote from last year to this. From the Estimates of last year it appeared that in the year 1866–7 a Vote was taken of £20,000 under the heading "Buildings at several Consular Stations." A similar Vote of £20,000 was taken last year under the same heading. On that occasion the Committee did not require a list of the stations at which these buildings were to be erected. He was willing to admit it would have been better if they had been given. The omission had now been supplied by the Secretary to the Treasury. It appeared that they included Canton, Foochow, Ningpo, Tien-tsin, and other places, the names of which, however, would not afford much information to hon. Members unacquainted with the country. Major Crossman was sent out to China and Japan expressly to control the expenditure on these Consular buildings; for it had been found by the late Government that the Consular authorities were more anxious to study their own convenience than economy, and were proposing works regardless of their cost. To put an end to this, his hon. Friend opposite sent out a person in whom he had confidence, to report what was really necessary. Reports had been sent home of the requirements of the different stations, and the expenditure necessary was estimated at £179,000. Of this, £50,000 was required for the Supreme Court at Shangai, leaving £129,000 for the twelve other stations. When an officer was at that distance it was difficult to specify at which stations the building should be begun; and he was therefore instructed to begin building at such stations as it would be most convenient for him to superintend. It was difficult also to find out at such a distance where the money would be spent during the current year. The Government, therefore, could only act generally, and they came to the conclusion that it would be best to leave the control to Major Crossman.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he presumed that the estimate of Colonel Gordon was made upon certain data, though the specifications might not be in the Treasury; and it would be a most unusual thing for a Committee of Supply to require a specification to be made out in detail for any public buildings. The Government had no intention of exceeding Colonel Gordon's estimate.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the House had voted last year the sum of £10,000 for these Services under the head of buildings required at certain stations, and £7,000 the year before that, and besides this there was last year £5,000 for building in Japan. Major Crossman had sent over a Report with respect to the buildings which would be required in Japan, and he believed the sum of £15,000 would have to be spent upon them. The detailed Report, however, had not been sent home as yet. Unless the Committee would trust the Government
 997
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Treasury had accepted the proposition to build a new house at Teheran with very great reluctance, and only on the ground that it was by far the most economical step that could be taken. It was extremely undesirable that the Vote should be withdrawn; because they would have to spend a great deal of money in keeping the old house in repair.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped that this was the last time an item in connection with Portpatrick would appear in the Estimates; for he was glad to say that it had been decided to abandon that place as a port of departure for the mail packets. The difficulty had arisen in consequence of a Treasury Minute of 1856, in which the Government of that day undertook to make a harbour suitable for packet services. On the faith of that Minute the railway company spent a large sum of money, and the object of the Government had since been to come to some arrangement with the company on the subject. It had at last been arranged that the Government should lend the County Down Railway Company the debenture capital at a lower rate of interest than that which they were now paying, and that Portpatrick should then be finally abandoned
 1003
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Resolution read by the Chairman was founded on a very distinct principle—namely, that the House should not divide twice on the same question. If the wish of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) were complied with, a very unsatisfactory state of things might occasionally arise. One Member might move a reduction of £5,000 in an item and, though he might be unsuccessful, another Member might immediately afterwards move that the whole Vote be reduced by £5,000, which would be virtually seeking a decision twice over. Then, another case might arise. One Member might unsuccessfully move a reduction of £5,000 on one item, a second might move a reduction of £10,000 on another item and be in a minority, and a third might propose a reduction of £7,000 and be in a minority also; yet, the three sections of the Committee who had supported these several Motions might combine, to reduce the whole Vote by the three sums taken together. That state of things would cause great confusion, and prevent the Government from ascertaining with clearness what was the opinion of the House upon the question involved. For these reasons, he thought the Resolution of the House should be adhered to.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the hon. Gentleman had, perhaps, selected a year in which there was a great mortality; but the last accounts showed a great increase in the population. The hon. Member had adduced the increase of the revenue as a proof of decay, inasmuch as he attributed that increase to the imposition of new taxes. The truth, however, was, that it was due to no such cause, but to the growing prosperity of the colony, for the taxes there remained the same as those which had been levied for the last ten years. The next complaint of the hon. Member was that the Government had unwisely interfered with the railway speculations of the colonists, and prevented railways being made into the coffee districts; but that, too, was a statement which was not supported by the facts of the case. When it was shown that the state of the funds for making the railway referred to was satisfactory,
 977 978
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Watkin) asked that House to grant a Select Committee to inquire into the state of Ceylon upon two grounds. The first was, that certain complaints had reached this country from that island; and the second was, that the institutions of the island were decaying, and its population and prosperity were falling away, and that general misgovernment existed there. Now, as far as the complaints were concerned, they were amply discussed only four weeks ago, when the hon. Gentleman called the attention of the House to the petition which had been forwarded from Ceylon to this country. The hon. Member had not adduced any fresh complaint. Four hon. Members interested in Ceylon took part in that discussion. He (Mr. Adderley) then stated the views of the Government upon the subject, which were fully indorsed by the right hon. Gentleman the late Colonial Secretary, and the House seemed to think that no case whatever had been made out in support of the petition. The hon. Gentleman had now put forward statements of his own, alleging that the island was in a general state of decay. But he submitted that the hon. Member had altogether failed to change the issue of the discussion which had already taken place upon Ceylon. The sole ground of complaint
 976
 MR. MONK  called attention to the proposed expenditure of £9,920 for British Consulate and Embassy houses at Constantinople. A new Embassy house was proposed to be built at Therapia. A most extravagant system was being pursued with respect to the Embassy house at Constantinople; and it was the duty of Parliament to take steps for the reduction of the sums charged upon the country for the purpose of maintaining that establishment. He would quote the following figures to prove how the expenditure had gone on increasing, and to show the enormous sums which had been voted for our Ambassador's houses at Constantinople during the last few years. In 1863–4 the estimate was £4,352, subsequently reduced by a sum of £400; in 1864–5, £3,200; in 1865–6, £3,455; in 1866–7, £3,000; in 1867–8, £4,000; and in 1868–9 it has reached the grand sum of £9,920. He pointed out that last year Parliament had voted a sum of £350 for iron shutters for the building at Therapia, which, if the present proposal were carried out, would be money thrown away. Twenty years ago upwards of £80,000 had been expended in building an Ambassador's palace at Pera, and since that thousands of pounds had been spent in keeping it in repair. He had been at the palace at Therapia, which was very pleasantly situated on the Bosphorus. He thought it was quite unnecessary to spend so large a sum for a new palace, and he hoped the Committee would not sanction the proposal. He begged to move that the Vote be reduced by £6,000, the sum proposed for the new Embassy house at Therapia.
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to know whether the plans had been drawn by Colonel Gordon himself, and whether the specifications were at the Treasury? Last year the House was informed that the Government had given this matter their careful consideration, and had come to the conclusion, that as the Ambassador was at Therapia only a short time in the year, a new building for a summer residence was; not necessary. He asked the House to pause before giving its sanction to a proposal nominally to expend £10,000, but really to commit itself to an unforeseen expenditure.
 MR. MONK  asked, whether the noble Lord would not postpone the item till plans and specifications were before them?
 MR. NEATE  urged that the Committee should trust the Government. The amount was not a very large one, and as they knew they had not a very flourishing Budget, it was the interest of the Government to be as economical as possible. His experience was that there was an excessive cutting down of the Estimates at the Treasury.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, they could not have an estimate without a specification. An officer of Engineers had sent in a plan, and, according to his idea, the house would cost £10,000; but another man might have quite another idea—might think the house should be finished and decorated in quite a different way, and the house might cost three or four times the amount now talked of. Without a specification the estimate was a sham.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had hardly done justice to the Paper which he had quoted. The paragraphs preceding the extract which he had read considerably modified that passage. The spirit of the Paper referred to was this:—That the Government officials in Ceylon had an absolute majority in the Council with regard to the control of expenditure. Ceylon was too large an island to be placed on the same footing as some small West Indian islands, and the people of Ceylon wished that un-officials should have a majority in the Ceylon Council. They wished that should be effected in one of two ways—either by increasing the number of the unofficial men, or by diminishing the number of the official men. He thought that was a very fair proposal. A remark of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that only a small minority supported this proposal, put him in mind of an anecdote which was related to him by Mr. Abercrombie, a former Speaker of the House. Mr. Abercrombie told him that at the commencement of the anti-Corn Law agitation a division took place in which only twelve Members voted in the minority, and that when he (Mr. Abercrombie), one of the minority, was marching out of the House to give his vote, he heard one of the Members of the majority say, "There are just a dozen of them, and they have not an acre among them." That, no doubt, was thought a conclusive argument by the Member who adopted it. He believed it was true, that the twelve had not an acre amongst them, but they had brains; and they inoculated the country with the truth of the proposition that they advocated. That truth prevailed; the majority of the House adopted it, and there was now no one on either side of the House who would say that they
 982
 MR. GREENE  thought it bad taste for the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) to remind people who were going to die of the fate that was
 1000
 COLONEL FRENCH  confirmed the statement of the right hon. Member (Mr. Cave) with respect to the breach at Holyhead, and said it was absolutely necessary to expend the money in repairing it.
 COLONEL FRENCH  asked, if any Report had been made with reference to the matter under discussion?
 COLONEL FRENCH  asked, if there was any objection to produce the Report of Major Crossman?
 COLONEL FRENCH  held that the ruling of the Chairman was correct.
 MR. GATUORNE HARDY , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, that as any discussion of the measure would probably be on details, such discussion could best take place in Committee.
 MR. BENTINCK  asked, whether the pictures at Hampton Court were the property of the Crown, or of the nation. Were they not maintained by sums voted from the Consolidated Fund?
 MR. BENTINCK  drew attention to the item of £500 for cleansing and restoring pictures in Hampton Court Palace. They were not, it appeared, the property of the nation, but of the Crown, and the Crown ought to pay the expenses connected with them.
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he had never listened to a more monstrous argument than that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Different sections of the House might be defeated in turn upon special Motions, and yet they might concur in thinking that the Estimates as a whole had not been framed with a due regard to economy. He thought some alteration of the rule was necessary.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  believed that there had been a long dispute respecting this matter, and he would take care to inquire into it. He believed there was also some point of dispute as to time. It appeared that a sum of £9,000 would be surrendered to the Exchequer, but that sum had not yet been surrendered.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, it was necessary to expend the sum asked for at Holyhead. He would make inquiries relative to the question of the hon. Member for Pontefract.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, there would be no objection to produce Major Crossman's Report. At all events a statement should be made showing the distribution of the money which it was proposed to spend.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he held in his hand a list of thirteen places in China and three in Japan at which the money would be expended. Of the total of £179,000, £50,000 was the estimated cost of new buildings at Shanghai alone. In addition new buildings were required at Canton, Foochow, Ningpo, and other places. The principle of this expenditure had been already sanctioned by the Treasury and by previous Votes of the Committee; and the total Vote was submitted this year on the principle that if the expenditure was to be incurred, the sooner the money was spent the better, for then the Government could dispense with the services of the gentleman who was superintending the outlay — Major Grossman, who had proved himself to be a useful public servant, had been sent out to Canton, and was responsible for the way in which this money was spent in China and Japan. There was every reason to suppose that he would conduct the business with due regard to economy. He might remind the Committee that large sums had been realized by the re-sales of land at Shanghai, at prices beyond its original cost; the aggregate gain would perhaps be £50,000 or £60,000, and therefore this outlay was not altogether one of money out of pocket.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he was not; he was abroad superintending these works. He had recommended that expenditure should be incurred at thirteen places.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, the Vote contained many objectionable items, but there was one he considered particularly objectionable—namely, that of upwards of £7,000 for St. James's Palace. He could not understand the use of this palace. Her Majesty did not reside there or hold Her Courts there. Recently Her Majesty's Courts had been held at Buckingham Palace; and if Buckingham Palace was not large enough for the purpose, he should be in favour of additional expenditure in order to make it sufficiently large. He could not conceive why they should sanction the extravagance of keeping up St. James's Palace, when at most it could be used only two or three days in the year, and when there was another palace in the neighbourhood. Everybody who had ever been at a Court at St. James's Palace agreed that it was a most uncomfortable palace for the purpose. He believed that the state of the finances, as it was to be described next
 1007
 MR. FAWCETT  then moved that the sum of £5,636 for Palaces partly in the occupation of Her Majesty, be omitted from the proposed Vote.
 MR. FAWCETT  hoped that the noble Lord would make the necessary inquiries respecting the point upon which he had asked for information.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he wished to ask, whether in the opinion of the Government, it would be possible to adapt Buckingham Palace for the holding of drawing-rooms and levees, so that the cost
 1010
 MR. LABOUCHERE  quite agreed with the noble Lord that great pleasure was derived by the people of the metropolis from visits made to Hampton Court Gardens, and that money could not be better expended than in their maintenance. But he found that under Vote 9, ample provision was made for that purpose, and the Vote of £7,000 odd, which he proposed to reduce by £5,000, was spent, not in the maintenance of those gardens, but upon the stables, vinery, &c. He should like to know who used the stables of Hampton Court Palace. The Court never visited there. He must therefore press his Amendment.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved that from the sum of £7,313 for Palaces not in the occupation of Her Majesty, the sum of £5,000 be disallowed.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that in that case he hoped the Vote would be agreed to. If it was intended to build a new house in two or three years' time it would be mere folly to spend £2,000 or £3,000 in tinkering up the old buildings.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had always been under the impression that there was a very good house at Teheran. He agreed with those who thought it far better to build than to hire a house; but he thought that the Committee ought to have some definite information as to how much money it would be necessary to expend upon it. Were they, for instance, going to send out European furniture? If they were it might cost as much as the house itself.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he could state that no part of the sum asked for in respect of Royal Palaces was devoted to the drainage of the town of Windsor. He thought we had a great deal too many palaces. The palaces which were not in the occupation of the Crown cost about £50,000 a year. The orangery, vinery, stables, and outbuildings of Hampton Court Palace cost £7,313. Now, those who resided in that palace were, from early association, lather reckless in their habits, and in order to point out to them the excellence of economy, he should move that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £5,000. £2,313 was quite sufficient for Hampton Court Palace.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had the same objection to this Vote that he had had to that respecting Constantinople. It was for the purchase of land for the new house; and before the Committee was asked to grant £20,000 for that purpose, he really thought that it should be told what was the price that the old site was likely to fetch. He believed that the present house was unhealthy, and he desired to know, what superiority the new site would possess over it in that respect?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  asked the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office, whether it was contemplated to build at Pekin?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  feared that the matter was not fully understood by the Committee. Not only at the Embassy house at Constantinople and Therapia, but at the Consulate houses, everything was in an exceedingly bad state of repair, and the real reason why Parliament was so often asked for money was that we had not adopted the best and cheapest course by pulling down the old houses and building new ones. His hon. Friend near him had spoken of the "summer palace" at Therapia. He (Mr. Labouchere) had had the misfortune to live in that palace; and the fact was that so far from being in reality a palace the buildings in question were simply three sheds, nothing better than an old farmhouse, and in exceedingly bad repair. When he resided there he could hardly sleep in consequence of the number of scorpions with which the house was infested. Those who had been much in Turkey knew that when houses became old and full of holes the scorpions multiplied with great rapidity. He believed, in fact, that the thin sheds at Therapia were by this time quite uninhabitable, and that instead of a few hundreds to buy shutters, it was far cheaper to spend £10,000 in one sum, not to build palaces, but a habitable house for the Ambassador's residence in summer. He would, however, ask the Secretary to the Treasury to defer the vote until after some communication with Contantinople,
 985
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, nobody would suppose for a moment that the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs would waste the money of the country, but there could be no objection, he thought, to postponing the Vote. He believed that if the Embassy at Constantinople were made to understand that the building of the new house would be contingent upon their finding the money, there would be a much better prospect of the money being provided in the way he had suggested than if the House of Commons voted it ill the first instance. Part of the land is now used as a kitchen garden. People in their senses did not think of having kitchen gardens on the Bosphorus. The surplus land might be sold for the full amount of £10,000. As to the suggestion that a Minister should hire a house at Therapia, there must first be a house to hire. Those Ministers for whom houses had not been built at Therapia were obliged, at great inconvenience, to go to Prince's Island.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the House having, in 1863, negatived the Vote for the employment of a civil architect at Constantinople, the buildings there were practically not under the charge of anybody with professional experience. When he came to the Treasury in 1865 he found that very large estimates of work to be done had been sent home, yet there was nobody to whom application could be made for information, the clerk of the works having of necessity been brought home and pensioned off, at considerable cost, in accordance with the Vote of the House. After careful inquiry Colonel Gordon, then Major Gordon, an officer of Engineers, who had other employment at Constantinople, and who was certified to be perfectly competent to superintend these buildings, was appointed with a salary of £300 a year, and was instructed to go thoroughly into all questions of repairs, and see whether it was proper to preserve the old palace at Therapia or not. Having made that appointment, be left the Treasury long before Colonel Gordon's Report was received, and knew nothing of what had happened since; but, knowing that if Colonel Gordon had not been appointed there would have been no one to do the work at all, and presuming that the Government had acted upon his Report to the best of their discretion, he could not oppose the present Vote.
 MR. CHILDERS  agreed very much in the spirit of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Gorst) that it was almost hopeless to discuss any colonial question in the present state of that House. He also agreed with much that had been stated by the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Watkin). Ceylon had not undergone that rigid inspection by the Colonial Office which from time to time was required; and he strongly urged the desirability, if a Committee were not granted, of sending out a Commission to Ceylon to look very
 980 "The public of Ceylon will, at present be satisfied with such a concession as will give them the enjoyment, through their Representatives in Council, of the constitutional right of full control of the local revenues, freed from the dictation of the Governor or the Secretary of State." 981
 MR. CHILDERS  hoped the Government would give some further explanations.
 MR. CHILDERS  thought the Secretary to the Treasury was mistaken in one respect; for he did not believe that the House was committed to this expenditure. On
 993
 MR. CHILDERS  observed, in reference to a remark of the last speaker, that the Estimates were now arranged in accordance with the provisions of an Act of Parliament passed a few years ago, and in accordance with the advice of the Public Accounts Committee. As to this particular Vote, in 1865 the Treasury, finding that large demands were made from the Foreign Office for Consular buildings in China and Japan, determined not to sanction at that time any additional expenditure; but merely took a Vote to finish the works then in hand, and sent out an officer to visit the different stations and report as to the requirements of each. That being so, it was much to be regretted that the old fault had now been again made of not giving distinct details in the Estimates of the sums required in each case. He might add that when the consular Vote came before the Committee he should take the opportunity
 992
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that this expenditure had been going on for several years, and although on the face of these Estimates, the House was supposed to have voted only £40,000, it had really voted much more. Having regard to the small number of Europeans at Chinkiang and another place, he thought it would be unwise
 995
 MR. CHILDERS  asked for some explanation respecting the item for the expense of the re-construction of Romney Lock and Weir, and for the removal of Old Windsor Lock. He believed that in consequence of Romney Lock falling into ruins, some of the water arrangements connected with Windsor Castle were interfered with, and it was originally intended that the expense of the repair of the lock should be only advanced by the Treasury, and repaid from the funds of the Conservancy raised under a Bill before Parliament; but it now appeared that it was to be defrayed by the present Vote.
 MR. CHILDERS  desired some explanation respecting a sum of £11,650, which was put in the Vote for the Little Basses Rocks (at Ceylon) spare lightship. Was it the case that this lightship had answered?
 MR. CHILDERS  repeated his inquiry as to whether the existing arrangement had been found satisfactory or not? Three or four changes of mind on the part of the Department had occurred, but the House had as yet no information that the light was satisfactory.
 MR. CHILDERS  suggested to the noble Lord, as a large deficit in the Revenue was unavoidable this year, it would be better to postpone this Vote to another year.
 MR. CHILDERS  asked, whether, in consideration of the accommodation provided for the mail packets at Holyhead Harbour, by the expenditure of the sum of £6,500 mentioned in the Vote, the Post Office and Treasury had agreed with the mail contractors as to certain conditions with respect to time, which had been the subject of much correspondence; and, if not, what was required to be done before the Post Office would be in a position to impose fines upon the mail contractors for not keeping time?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that if the price of land at Teheran was rising, the value of the old site might be expected to rise in proportion.
 MR. CHILDERS  remarked that there was no claim on the Government for the lock referred to. There was only a claim for the machinery which sent the water up to Windsor Castle; and it could not cost £2,500 to put the machinery in order.
 MR. CANDLISH  pointed out that the sum proposed this year for Holyhead Harbour, together with the amount previously taken for it, would exceed the estimated cost of the works there. The Estimate had also been exceeded at Dover. He wished to inquire of the Government, whether any idea could be given of the total expenditure which would be required to complete the works at those Harbours?
 MR. CANDLISH  remarked, that no answer had yet been given with regard to the item which appeared in the Vote respecting Portpatrick.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, the Committee need not expect that by granting, money for the building of Consular residences, they would get rid of annual charges with regard to the residences of our Consuls abroad. He observed that there was an item of £2,000 for ordinary repairs of the Consular residence at Constantinople. The buildings at distant stations seemed always to want repairing, and he thought that in such places it would be better to hire than to purchase houses. He hoped the hon. Member would insist on a division.
 MR. CANDLISH  did not think any one could object to the principle of the Bill, which was simply that boundaries should be altered.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, that it was greatly to the interest of Ireland that they should obtain the best means of communication between Portpatrick and Ireland; and when the necessary amount had been expended it would ensure accuracy of service.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, the House never complained of any increase in the Votes that were intended for the comfort of Her Majesty, or the convenience of the public, but they did object to expenditure that was entirely useless. There was no justification whatever for the expense now incurred for St. James's Palace. There were few levees held there which could not be held as well in Buckingham Palace, where Her Majesty now held her drawing rooms.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  asked, if the reason why the penalties had not been enforced against the packet company at Holyhead was because that company alleged that the contract for the execution of the necessary works had not been completed in a proper manner?
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  wished to know whose duty it was to report to the Board of Trade as to the advisability of these lights? Was it the Admiral on the station, or any other responsible person?
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he had acquainted the hon. Member for Halifax with his intention of bringing in the matter under the notice of the House.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the very unsatisfactory manner in which certain joint-stock companies had, for the last
 947 948 949 950 951 952 The Times' 953 s. 954 s. bonâ fide 955 The Times 956 The Times, 957 "That, in the opinion of this House, the advance of £600,000 of public money on loan to a private company of adventurers styling themselves the Madras Irrigation Company, granted on the 15th day of May 1866 for their sole benefit, and likewise the offer of a large loan on similar terms announced by the Secretary of State on the 20th day of February last as contemplated to be given to the East India Irrigation and Canal Company, are acts of impropriety, are mischievous in policy, and should be discontinued." 958
 MR. AYTOUN  asked, by whom the plan for the new palace had been drawn, and whether it was by an officer in the Royal
 988
 MR. GRAVES  said, he could tell the
 1002
 MR. GRAVES  said, the sum asked this year for Alderney was £56,000, or an increase of £13,800 upon the amount voted last year. He confessed he had great doubts as to the propriety of any large expenditure upon Alderney. He had visited the place recently, and was quite unable to ascertain what we shall gain from the large and increasing outlay which went on there. The impression he had derived from his inspection was that they might as well throw the money into the sea as go on with the construction of that harbour, further than the most simple and speediest completion.. It could not contain more than four or five first-class ships, and it would take a garrison of 10,000 men to defend it. It was desirable to bring the expenditure upon these works to an end.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  complained of the annual increase in the amount of these Votes. It was said the people went to Hampton Court Gardens; so they did, but they had to pay to see the vinery. They went to Kensington Gardens; but that was no reason for spending so much on Kensington Palace. Then there was a vote of £200 for incidental expenses, which was never there before; he should like to know what that was for. He would support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Brighton.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  understood that, as he wished to move a still larger reduction, he must do so before the Amendment of the hon. Member for Middlesex was put. He therefore moved the reduction of the whole Vote by £15,000.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  had taken care to propose his Amendment in time; and was disappointed to find that his submission to the ruling of the Chairman had rendered the proposal of his Amendment irregular.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  contended that a large expenditure of this nature ought not to be sanctioned before the assembling of the new Parliament. He despaired of the present Parliament doing anything really practical or useful with respect to the Estimates.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, that if the hon. Member did not go to a vote upon this question, he should, in future, walk out of the House whenever the hon. Gentleman brought forward any other Motion of a similar nature. He protested against the House being turned into a mere debating society. Hon. Members brought forward Motions of this description, and after they had impeded the progress of Public Business they withdrew them and the matter ended in smoke. He hoped that the hon. Member would press the question to a division. The very fact that the Under Secretary for the Colonies, and an Under Secretary under the last Administration, had combined in defending the present state of things in Ceylon, convinced him that there must be something rotten in the Ceylon Government.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  stated that all the Members in his neighbourhood had shared in and acted under the same misapprehension.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  inquired, whether Major Crossman was not at this moment in England?
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he considered that the House was sitting to no good purpose, after the Vote of the other night. He thought they ought to finish up their concerns, garnish their house, and set it in order for the new Parliament, which he hoped would be more economical than any Parliament they had ever seen. It was very wrong of the Government, when they hardly knew that they were any Government at all, except on suffrance, to insist on pressing new Votes. The best thing they could do was to complete the Votes already partly taken, and shut up shop as fast as they could.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  objected to the principle of the Bill, which was to take away voters from the country and place them in the towns, thus eliminating the town voters, who were really the Liberal voters. Without going the length of moving the rejection of the Bill, he thought there should be further discussion on this stage, and therefore moved that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. SERGEANT GASELEE  entered his strong protest against the language of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Since he had had the honour of a seat in the House he had never heard from a Member of the Government such astounding language.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he decidedly objected to this new Vote; because if it were agreed to, no doubt it would be followed in future years by larger Votes. Next year they would be told that the Committee had voted so much this year, and so the thing would go on. He wanted to nip the matter in the bud, and therefore he moved that the Vote be disallowed.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that some details should be given of the expenditure at Japan, and meanwhile moved that the Vote should be reduced by £15,000, the proposed expenditure there.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  inquired, whether it was intended to build an Embassy house at Pekin?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  also wished to hear some explanation respecting the sums asked for Consular buildings abroad, especially in China and Japan. He objected to the present arrangement of the Estimate, which was very puzzling and prevented hon. Members from knowing precisely what they were asked to vote. He doubted the propriety of laying out the money which was asked for Consular buildings in Japan, and as an illustration of the necessity for mature consideration in regard to expending money in the country he referred to a paragraph in  The Times'
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  trusted that the Motion for a Select Committee would be agreed to. The Under Secretary for the Colonies had objected that the complaints came only from Englishmen in the colony; but Englishmen constituted the life and soul of the colony; and, if they complained, they ought to have a fair hearing. With regard to the population of the colony, it was true, as stated by the hon. Member for Stockport that its amount had diminished since 1863, though there had been some increase of population in 1866 over the amount in 1865.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  objected to the building of a palace for a country house. He feared that if the Committee voted £10,000 for the purpose this year, they would be called upon for further Votes for decoration and furniture next year or the year after. They had much better give the Ambassador a proper sum and let him provide his own house.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  complained of this continual outlay upon the harbour of Holyhead, which was simply used for a few steam packets.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  called the attention of the Government to the fact that in the case of Alderney there was some discrepancy to be explained. Of the total amount of £1,274,000 voted, £1,226,861 had been expended, leaving a balance of £47,000 of which £9,000, excess of former Votes, was to be surrendered; whereas it was now proposed to vote £56,000, which would exceed the total.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  doubted very much whether they knew what they were doing. He did not know why they should take money unless they wanted it. He could not understand why they should take
 1004
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, this Vote was increasing year by year, and some explanation was necessary with regard to it. There was this year an increase of £14,293 over the amount of last year's Vote. He considered the expenditure enormous. He also noticed that the money spent on palaces not in the occupation of Her Majesty was very large. £8,000 was charged for Windsor Castle, and the sum asked for Hampton Court Palace stables and outbuildings, including orangery and vinery, amounted to nearly £8,000. He believed that a certain class of persons were lodged in that place who did not wish to pay their debts; and an action had been brought in the Court of Exchequer against a sheriff for putting the law in force in the case of one of the inmates. He should like to know at whose expense that action was brought. He did not think it was creditable to ask the taxpayers of the country to pay such large sums to keep up these palaces.
 MR. WATKIN  desired to state that he had said "Aye" to the Motion which involved the rejection of the Committee for which he had moved in the belief that he was supporting his own proposal. He had certainly intended to press the matter to a division.
 MR. WATKIN  complained that they had no information as to the total amount which had been voted from the beginning in reference to Constantinople and other places.
 MR. WATKIN  said, that the colonial blue book showed that in 1863 the population was 2,342,098, whilst in 1866 it was only 2,088,027.
 MR. WATKIN  then rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the condition of Ceylon and the action of its Government. He hoped for the forbearance of the House, as Ceylon was not a very popular subject; but if he wanted any reason for asking the House to agree to this Inquiry, he would find it in the fact that the population of the country, if the Government Returns were to be trusted, had been reduced from 2,300,000 in 1863 to 2,000,000 in 1866, and this in the face of the other fact, which also appeared in these Returns, that there was an increase of births over deaths, which would show that the decrease was owing to emigration. When this question was brought forward on former occasions, the reply of the Colonial Secretary was that the island ought to be annexed to the continent of India. It was only a few years ago, however, that this question was fully discussed by a Committee of the House of Commons, and they came to the unanimous opinion that the circumstances of India and of Ceylon were so different that it would be highly inexpedient and unjust to annex the one to the other. The particular reasons he had for bringing this question before the House he might very shortly sum up. The Chamber of Commerce at Colombo and the Planters' Association at Kandy, both of them influential bodies, had requested him to take the matter up, as representations had been sent from the inhabitants of Ceylon, strongly backed up by the Press, unanimously urging that their grievances should be inquired into, and those representations had not been treated with respect. They did not ask the House to interfere until they had for many years vainly asked the Colonial Office to do them substantial justice. For the last ten years scarcely two had passed without memorials having been sent over from the Legislative Chamber, signed by official and non-official members alike, and often supported by the Governor, asking that they might have that control over
 972 973 974 975
 MR. POWELL  said, that if the ordinary repairs were on so large a scale as £2,600, it was evident that the buildings must be in such a condition as to render their total re-construction not only wise but economical. Having visited the Bosphorus during the past autumn he could testify that the houses were worn out, and that their condition was such as to render them a byword among the native population. The buildings had been handed over by a former Sultan; and the Ambassadors had suffered some inconvenience with regard to them on account of their possessing certain features of antiquarian interest.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, when the Conservancy Bill was passed £5,000 was given up to carry out certain drainage improvements, and power was given to impose a certain rate upon the owners of property, for the purpose of diverting the drainage. They were now asked to vote a sum of £15,000 to accomplish the same object, and they ought to see that it was not paid twice over. It ought also to be seen whether they were not in this Vote dealing with the drainage of the whole town.
 MR. GOLDNEY  thought they ought to pass this Vote, after the explanations given by the noble Lord.
 MR. GOLDNEY  thought the position of the question was this. A Vote might be proposed in its total amount which any Member might move to reduce. If that Motion were negatived it would still be open to him to move the reduction of any item. The ruling of the Chair seemed to him perfectly
 1013
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : That is no answer to my objection. When once an Amendment has been moved to any item of a Vote the Vote must be put, it is now stated, without Amendment. This pre eludes any Member who wishes to move that the whole Vote be omitted from doing so.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  fully concurred in the view of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets. It was most important that the Committee of Supply should have the fullest liberty
 1011
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would ask the Committee to suppose a case where one Member wished to reduce a Vote of £200,000 by one-half, while another Member wished to move the total omission of the Vote. If the Member in favour of the omission of the Vote moved first, the other Member could not be heard; and if on the other hand the Member in favour of the reduction of the Vote by £100,000 moved first, the other would, according to the ruling of the Chairman, be precluded from bringing forward his Motion.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought it desirable that the Vote should be postponed until the noble Lord had inquired whether the statement made by the hon. Member for Middlesex, to the effect that a sufficient sum could be obtained, without calling upon the House at all, by the sale of part of the land at Therapia, was well founded.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : But will the noble Lord undertake to enquire whether we can recoup ourselves in the manner suggested?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that the Government ought to be prepared to furnish some information as to the places where and the objects for which the expenditure was to be incurred. There was one source of expenditure of which the Committee ought to be made aware. We had succeeded in getting China thrown open to foreigners, and some of the most disorderly characters from Europe had gone there. It was absolutely necessary that there should be some British authority to control these persons. If by admitting them we destroyed the authority of the Native Government, we ought in some degree to replace it, at least to the extent of keeping our own countrymen in order.
 MR. GORST  thought the House had not only failed to dispose of the grievances of Ceylon, but had failed in understanding what those grievances really were. It was ridiculous to say that the matter had been fully discussed on a former evening, when, in point of fact, only four Members took part in the debate. Moreover, both the Under Secretary for the Colonies and the right hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell) had misconceived the real ground of complaint. Although the statement that the military expenditure was not the real grievance had been proved during the former discussion, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley) had repeated his former statement. The grievance was not confined to any particular expenditure. It referred to the general system pursued by the Colonial Office; and the complaint was that the Colonial Minister of this country expended £1,000,000 per annum without the slightest check or control from any person in the world. [Mr. ADDERLEY: No, no!] Well, was that expenditure controlled by the House? The state of the House when colonial matters were brought forward showed that hon. Members did not take the slightest interest in them; and it was almost impossible to discuss them except when a Vote was proposed in Committee of Supply. On the previous discussion the House would have been counted out but for the accidental circumstance that the Government wanted to pass a Vote in Supply, and the result would probably have been the same on the present occasion but for a similar reason. Not only was there no control by the House over the expenditure in Ceylon, but there was no control whatever. Now, what was wanted was that there should be an efficient control vested in the colony itself. It was
 979
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that if that were so it was not his hon. Friend's fault that the hon. Member for Halifax was absent. He (Sir Stafford Northcote) could only say that he was less able to give an explanation of the transaction than the hon. Member for Halifax, under whose authority and that of Earl De Grey and Ripon the loan was made; but he believed that the circumstances were substantially as follows:—The Madras Irrigation Company was originally established as a company guaranteed by the Government. It was formed for the
 959 960 rationale 961 962 963 964 bonâ fide 965 966 967
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he regretted that the hon. Member had changed the terms of the Resolution he had placed on the Paper. He regretted that the hon. Member had done so without giving notice of his intention to call attention in such a specific manner to the transaction which he had in the first instance referred to—namely, the loan of £600,000 to the Madras Irrigation Company. He regretted it the more because the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) was not in the House, and he had some reason to believe that that hon. Gentleman was under the impression that this particular transaction was not to be called in question.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  was not going to defend what had been done at Alderney. For the works at that place £1,300,000 had long ago been estimated as the sum necessary. When they had gone so far with those works it was requisite to go a certain length further, and not leave them in an unfinished state, which would be really dangerous to shipping. Whether the works would be advantageous to shipping under any circumstances was a point
 1001
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that the report was made by the agent to the Trinity House. In the case of a colony, by the Colonial Government.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  believed that a lightship had been considered to be the best and must economical plan, though proposals had been made for a permanent construction. The spare ship was necessary in case the other broke adrift.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  was afraid he could not give any more definite answer to this question than that which had been given by previous Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Board of Trade. After careful consideration, they had come to the conclusion that it would not be justifiable, in the interests of navigation, to take away these lights, and that was all he could say about the matter. The advantage of a light was, of course, negative; and it was impossibly to say how many shipwrecks had been prevented by it.
 MR. GILPIN  said, he rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is expedient, instead of carrying out the punishment of death within prisons, that Capital Punishment should be abolished." 1034 lex talionis English Constitution, "For my own part, I do not doubt for a moment either the right of a community to inflict the punishment of death, or the expediency of exercising that right in certain states of society. But when I turn from that abstract right and that
 1035 enceinte "You are right. It is truly horrible to think of nursing a woman through her confinement, and then with her first returning strength to walk her to the scaffold! What is to become of the baby at its birth? is it to lie upon the mother's breast until removed by the hand of Calcraft? Oh, horrible! horrible! Could you not have a meeting to shame the authorities." 1036 The Daily News "Juries, like society, are not stricken foolish or motionless. They have, for the most part, an objection to the punishment of death; and they will, for the most part, assert it by such verdicts. As jurymen in the forgery cases (where jurors found a £10 note to be worth 39 s., 1037 1038 "I entreat all who may chance to read this letter to pause for an instant, and ask themselves whether they can remember any occasion on which they have in the broad day, and under circumstances the most favourable to recognition, mistaken one person for another, and believed that in a perfect stranger they have seen going away from them, or coming towards them, a familiar friend." "I could mention six or eight instances within my own knowledge in which men have been acquitted, purely upon the ground that the punishment was capital." "I know that juries have acquitted men clearly and beyond all doubt guilty of murder, and some of the very worst murders that have ever been committed in this country, and have done so simply because the punishment has been the punishment of death. They would have convicted if the punishment had been imprisonment for life, or any punishment short of taking the life of the man, and they have seized hold of any excuse rather than be agents in putting capital punishment into operation." 1039 1040 1041
 MR. LOWTHER  moved to leave out the words "Relatives of the prisoner, or." Those who objected to public executions could not desire the presence of relatives of the prisoner when executions were carried out in private.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the clause is permissive, and therefore it will make no difference in point of legal obligation whether the words are omitted or retained, though they would be useful as an instrucion to the sheriff as to whom he should admit.
 MR. LOWTHER  said, if the words are retained the sheriff will still have power under the clause to refuse the relatives admission in certain cases.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  remarked that if the clause were altered in the way proposed, the sheriff would be bound to admit the public indiscriminately into the gaol as long as there was room to accommodate them. Thus boys, women, and others who ought not to witness executions, would have a right to admission. By the clause as it stood power was given
 1061
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the reason why boys and girls were sometimes kept or ordered out of Court was that the Judge is assumed to have supreme control over the discipline of the Court, though some people doubted whether they have so much authority; but if this Amendment were adopted the sheriff would be bound to act according to the words of the statute, and to admit the public indiscriminately.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  proposed a clause extending the Act to Scotland, with the necessary modifications of language.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, there were no other powers in this Bill to take land than were contained in the Lands Clauses Consolidation Bill.
 MR. DENMAN , while agreeing with the spirit of his hon. Friend's Amendment, thought it quite superfluous and unnecessary. Under the term "persons," the representatives of the Press would be admissible.
 MR. DENMAN  admitted that one reason why he had voted for the second reading of the Bill was because he believed it was a step towards total abolition. But even assuming that capital punishment was to be maintained in perpetuity, was it not far better that it should be carried out within the prisons, and thus avoid the horrible and disgusting scenes that took place at public executions? One great stumbling block in the way of total abolitionists hitherto had been the want of a sufficiently strong public opinion to justify their proposal; private executions would, he believed, remove the difficulty by leading the public to the opinion that it was not necessary to put a person out of the world for the public safety when he could be well secured from doing harm by closely confining him in prison. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that, in the case of Palin, the first murder case he had ever defended, if the punishment had been anything but death the prisoner would have been convicted, because there was the plainest evidence against him. Palin was afterwards transported for fifteen years, and finally committed a capital offence, for which he was executed. But that he did not wish to inflict a speech upon hon. Members he might have cited different cases in which criminals, undoubtedly guilty, had escaped conviction through the repugnance of juries to doom them to the extreme penalty of the law. It would not be long, he thought after this Bill passed, before public opinion would declare that a secret act of assassination within the gaol was not necessary or expedient. A plan had been suggested by Sir Walter Crofton, a very high authority on such a subject, under which prisoners might be confined for life, and practically without hope, in the interior of some prison, so that society would run no risk of their escape from prison, and would avoid the risks it now ran, in many cases, from their total impunity, owing to the unwillingness of juries to inflict an irrevocable sentence.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he thought it would be a very great pity if the Committee were to lose this chance of getting through with the clauses of the Bill. There would be ample opportunity at its next stage to discuss the important subject which had been raised by the hon. Baronet.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  thought it would be only right for the Government to undertake some responsibility in connection with the Bill, and by the next stage attention would be paid to this matter.
 MR. AYRTON  thought that some one should be responsible for the clause. The hon. and learned Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid), who was a good authority, told them the clause did not meet the wants of the case. It seemed to him it was necessary to have a well-considered clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he observed that the corporation of London had made its influence felt in reference to the Bill, for by a note appended to the Schedule it was declared that the metropolis should not include the City of London; so that the result would be that the most wealthy portion of the metropolis would escape contributing towards the improvement of the dwellings of the poorest classes within the metropolis. Such an arrangement was most inequitable. He should move the omission in the Schedule of all words relating to the City of London, so as to make the metropolis at large, as defined by the Metropolis Local Management Act, liable to the charges for carrying this Act into operation.
 MR. AYRTON  suggested that this clause should not be pressed; but that the matter should be allowed to remain in the hands of the Government.
 MR. AYRTON  rose to move the following Resolution:—
 "That the Resolution of the House on the 9th day of February, 1858, That when it has been proposed to omit or reduce items in a Vote the Question shall be afterwards put upon the original Vote or upon the reduced Vote, as the case may be, without amendment," "That when it has been proposed to omit or reduce items in a Vote the Question shall be afterwards put upon the original Vote or upon the reduced Vote, as the case may be, unless an Amendment be moved for a reduction of the whole Vote." 1026 1027 "That when it has been proposed to omit or reduce items in a Vote the Question shall afterwards be put on the original Vote or on the reduced Vote, as the case may be, without amendment." 1028 1029
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this was a matter of considerable importance, and he was not at all surprised that the hon. and learned Member who took objection to the proceedings of last evening had brought it before the House; but he thought it was not desirable to decide at once a point only just raised upon a Notice given at an early hour that morning, and of which many Members were not aware until breakfast time. It was desirable that hon. Members should have the fullest opportunity of discussing the Estimates in detail, and moving Amendments; but he did not think that practically the Committee were deprived of that privilege. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets thought that every Member should have the opportunity of moving, not only the rejection of an item in the Vote, but the general reduction of the Vote itself. He concurred in this; but he reminded the hon. and learned Member that it was still open to a Member to move the general reduction of the Vote, notwithstanding that another Member had previously moved the rejection of a particular item. That being so, a Member must make up his mind in time whether he would move the reduction of an item or the rejection of a Vote, and would wait until he saw whether an objection to a particular item would succeed. If no such rule were adopted, they might have two decisions on a Vote, placing the Government in a position of considerable difficulty; because it might happen that the Committee would not entertain Amendments for the rejection of a particular item, and adopt that for a general reduction of the Vote, the consequence of which would be that the House having affirmed the item to which objection had been taken, the other items which had not been objected to would suffer in consequence of the gene-
 1030
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was a Member of the Committee of 1858, and very much approved of the Resolutions then arrived at. With regard to the point now under discussion, his impression was not in favour of the course suggested by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Ayrton); but he admitted the gravity of the point, and should like a longer time for its consideration. After what occurred last night, he had no idea that they would be called on to decide the point to-day. It did not appear to him to be a point which should be submitted to a Select Committee. It was a question which would be best discussed in open Chamber, and he thought they would be most likely to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion in that way. He would therefore suggest the adjournment of the debate, so that they might come to some decision after due consideration. He wished it to be understood that he was not pledged to anything, and should be ready to listen to any suggestion that should be made. If, however, the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets did not
 1033
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The rule laid down by the Chairman last night was, that after the decision of the Committee had been taken on a particular item in the Vote, it was not competent to an hon. Member to move the rejection of the whole Vote.
 MR. NEATE  said, that even if the House agreed to deprive executions of their public character, there was much that might and ought to be done to give solemnity to executions within the walls of the prison. He wished, for instance, that the sheriff present should be the High Sheriff; and he further thought that the foreman of the grand jury and at least three of the grand jury ought to attend the execution. ["Oh!"] The clause, as it stood, was founded on a total misconception of the nature and object of capital punishment. Something should be done to supply the want of publicity by the presence of proper representatives of the public. If he were asked to name a suitable hour and place for the purpose, he should say New Palace Yard at four o'clock. ["Oh, oh!"] As he was sure there would be a very strong feeling in the country against the Bill he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would allow a sufficient time between the Committee and the third reading to enable the House to learn what was thought of it out of doors. The
 1059 "The High Sheriff in person, and also the foreman of the Grand Jury by whom the Bill was found, and three other members of such Grand Jury, to be selected in such manner as the Judge of Assize by whom the case was tried shall direct."
 MR. NEATE  observed that the hon. Gentleman who last spoke inadvertently committed an error in stating that only four members of the Commission were in favour of the abolition of capital punishment, because, in addition to the four members alluded to, Mr. Justice O'Hagan did at a subsequent period intimate by a private memorandum an opinion recommending, though not immediately, the abolition of that punishment. It was also stated before the Commission by many gentlemen representing the Bar of this country that the result of their experience was that there was increased difficulty in obtaining the conviction of guilty persons in consequence of the existence on the statute book of the penalty of death. The present Bill only dealt with the smaller part of the subject which came under the consideration of the Commission. One important object of the Commission was to provide a better definition of the law of murder, and the Bill of the late Government as well as the Bill of last year grappled with that matter; but the present Bill only dealt with the smaller part of the question, having reference to the infliction of capital punishment in private. He objected to the labours of the Commission being dealt with in that way; for he feared that the result would be that the more important part of the recommendations of the Commission would fall to the ground. He admitted that the punishment of death was the most deterrent; but he did not therefore admit that it was the most effectual, or that its abolition would lead to the multiplication of murders. Certainly nothing was so terrible as death; but those who were most impressed with the sight of the scaffold were those who thought least of it when it was removed from their eyes. The same sensual nature which yielded to the terror of present death was least able to realize it at a distance. Murderers were usually, in
 1047
 MR. NEATE  said, that the punishment of hanging, as practised in great Britain, was derived from barbarous countries, and was singularly unequal in its operation. He would suggest that the Government should have recourse to modern science with the view of discovering a less painful mode of execution. It was a mistake to suppose that dislocation of the neck produced instantaneous death. Sometimes it did so; at other times, the criminal was convulsed for some seconds. The garotte was a more merciful punishment; or life might be taken by means of carbonic acid gas—a process which would prevent the painful necessity of having the hands of the hangman about the culprit's neck. He wished to limit manual interference by one fellow-creature with another in such cases as much as possible, and would even go so far as to allow the prisoner to put an end to himself. He thought the suggestion was worth consideration when they were altering the old mode of execution. He would move as a new clause, but would not press it to a division that—
 "Her Majesty or her successors may, by the advice of their Privy Council, prescribe any other mode of execution in lieu of hanging."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  concurred with the argument of the hon. Member for Devizes. He admitted that private executions prevailed in various countries; but there was no country in the world in which respect for the law was so high and deep as it was in England. The principle of secresy which the Bill contained was objectionable, because it would bring the carrying out of the law into suspicion and diminish the force of the law. Secresy in matters of this kind would excite against the Executive an amount of odium that must be deplored, and which had never previously attached to it. The principle of our law was, that the execution of a person was the act of the whole nation, and that being so, it should be public, in order that that portion of the nation residing in the immediate neighbourhood of the crime might, if they chose, attend and see their own punishment carried out.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he objected to flogging prisoners, because to degrade men was not the best way to fit them to continue in society. But the case of capital punishment is totally different, and the old principle of English law is that if a citizen of the country is to be deprived of his life the execution ought to take place in the face of the public.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, with reference to the remarks of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert), that if any change took place from private executions it would most certainly not be to public executions, but to the total abolition of capital punishment; the national aversion to secresy would enforce this abolition.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  expressed his opinion that, in introducing the element of privacy into executions, they would do their best to imitate the crime itself. It was, of course, a deed of violence. In taking away the element of publicity, they were taking away the chief authority for the act, which was to be sought, not in any written statute, but in the common feeling of mankind seated in the heart. This doing away with the  consensus populi
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  thought what was proposed by the Bill would be very like a select audience. It would probably come to admitting people by ticket.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  could not suppose that the relatives of the prisoner would like to be present at such a distressing and shocking sight. At all events, it should be left to the discretion of the sheriff to determine whether they should be admitted.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  complained that the matter was treated with levity on the Treasury Bench, and regretted to observe that the House seemed ready to relieve itself from a serious subject by ebullitions of that kind. There might be a crotchety sheriff, of opinion that it was in-
 1063
 MR. M'LAREN  said, it was always the case that poor persons stuck to their relatives to the death; and it would only be right to accord to them the privilege of
 1060
 MR. M'LAREN  suggested the addition of words to the effect that the sheriff should admit such reporters for the newspapers connected with the county or borough as he might deem proper.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he entirely disagreed in the views taken by his hon. Friend on the other side. Even supposing that the scriptural argument could be maintained, and that the text, "Whoso sheddeth man's blood by man shall his blood be shed," was correctly interpreted, which he by no means admitted, where was it written that the shedding of blood should necessarily take place in the midst of a crowd composed of the most profligate and worthless part of the population that could be collected? Did the spectacle do good to the classes who furnished these crowds? All the evidence went to show that instead of doing them good, it had a tendency to demoralize them. The clauses of the Bill would insure every necessary publicity, and be cordially thanked the Government for the measure.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he could see no good cause of complaint against the course pursued. He did not see that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Ayrton) had made out the slightest case; but if the House thought differently, he suggested that the question should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The external walls.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he understood the proposition of the hon. Gentleman was that the gaol should be opened to any persons who might choose to come, as long as there was sufficient room for their accommodation. [Mr. Alderman LUSK: No!] If not, due provision was made in the clause as it stood for carrying out the hon. Member's intention. It was left to the discretion of the sheriff and the visiting justices to admit such persons as they thought fit, and therefore it would be unnecessary to introduce the words proposed by the hon. Member.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that if the words proposed to be omitted were struck out, it would still be in the power of the Governor to admit relatives of the culprit under the words enabling him to admit "other persons" than the officials specially named.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The inquests will be conducted on precisely the same principles as at present.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : They will be as open to the public as Coroners' inquests held in prisons now are.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : If the hon. Gentleman thinks that an execution can be carried on without witnesses, I do not think so. There must be witnesses, whatever reliance may be placed upon their testimony.
 MR. GOSCHEN  opposed the Motion. There was a great deal of work to be done in the City of London of the nature contemplated by the Bill, and the City did not
 1067
 MR. LEEMAN  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE , in rising to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Law with respect to the Property of Married Women, said that had there been any important Government Bill in the Paper for that evening he should have hesitated, in the present state of the business of the House, to detain it with any statement at the present stage of the Bill which he should ask the leave of the House to bring in; but, as there was nothing of importance, he hoped he might be permitted to take this opportunity of explaining its object. In the able speech of last year in which his hon. Friend the Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) advocated the claims of female ratepayers to the suffrage the argument which had most weight with himself, and he believed with many others who voted with him, was that in which he pointed out the grievances resulting to large numbers of married women from the present state of the law relating to their property. He stated that, as a rule, the wealthy classes escape from the operation of the Common Law by means of marriage settlements; but that this course not being open to the poorer classes, they come under the full force of its severity. He said that if women had a share in the return of Members to this House there could not be a doubt that one of the first measures that would be forced upon our attention would be one for
 1016 "Myself, and what is mine, to you and yours Is now converted: but now I was the lord Of this fair mansion, master of my servants, Queen o'er myself; and even now, but now, This house, these servants, and this same myself Are yours, my lord." 1017 1018 "The Common Law gives to the husband the property of the wife, upon the ground that he is liable to maintain her, and makes no provision for the event of his failing or becoming unable to perform that duty. If the property be attainable at law
 1019 1020 1021 1022 "If the wife, taking up goods from a tradesman, can make her husband's liability depend on the estimate by a jury of his estate and degree, the law would practically compel him to regulate his expense by a standard to be set up by that jury." 1023 "However plain the moral obligation" (said Mr. Justice Blackstone) "that every man shall provide for those descended from his loins, it is one which the Common Law seems to have given no means of enforcing." 1024
 MR. CHILDERS  was quite aware of the fact, but he also understood the right hon. Gentleman to contend that that rule was quite right; because if it was afterwards competent to the Committee to reduce the whole Vote, the Government would be in a difficulty with respect to its distribution among items unobjected to; but he thought this hardly a conclusive objection. It often happened that while some hon. Member who objected to the whole Vote on general grounds of economy, not possessing the necessary information, which was in possession of the Government, to enable him to point out objections to particular items, adopted the plan of moving the general reduction of the Vote, there were others who, from having filled official positions, or having devoted themselves very sedulously to the study of successive Estimates, were enabled to point out the objectionable increase of particular items, and who therefore moved their rejection or reduction. He certainly did not think that those who wished to move a general reduction, ought to be precluded from doing so by the rejection of an Amendment reducing an item; and he suspected his right hon. Friend was in error in supposing that after an hon. Member had moved the general reduction of a Vote, a particular item could be discussed. The form of the Amendment to the whole Vote precluded such a course. But he would take higher ground. It was for the interest of the Government, and every Member of the House, to whatever party they might belong, to give the fullest and freest discussion to any criticism of the Estimates. The present process did preclude the House from criticising the Votes in the way which they wished. The present course might be convenient to the Government at the time; but he ventured to say that it would be more to their interest, and that of the public service if a fuller and better criticism of the Estimates could be obtained. If the adoption of the present rule precluded hon. Members from dealing with the Votes in the way which they desired, there would be always complaints till it was altered. The new arrangement might involve more time than was at present occupied; but he was sure
 1032
 MR. CHILDERS  said, his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had concluded his speech without making any recommendation to the House. In fact, the matter ought to be referred to a Select Committee, and he wished to know if his right hon. Friend had any objection to the adoption of that course; or did he merely propose the adjournment of the subject to a future day? He understood his right hon. Friend to say that if a particular item was objected to and discussed, the decision on that item must be conclusive as to the judgment of the Committee on the whole Vote.
 MR. CANDLISH  thought it important that the relatives of the prisoner should have a legal right to attend the execution.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  thought that the City had no claim for the exemption which was claimed. The metropolis should be regarded as one area for the purpose of carrying out all sanitary arrangements.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  thought that the discussion showed the necessity of not
 1065
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  thought it would be unfair to require the attendance of either the High Sheriff or the foreman of the grand jury as they were unpaid officials.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : It would be a great satisfaction to me if I were able to support this Motion. It is always a matter of regret to me to find myself, on a public question, opposed to those who are called—sometimes in the way of honour, and sometimes in what is intended for ridicule—the philanthropists. Of all persons who take part in public affairs, they are those for whom, on the whole, I feel the greatest amount of respect; for their characteristic is, that they devote their time, their labour, and much of their money to objects purely public, with a less admixture of either personal or class selfishness, than any other class of politicians whatever. On almost all the great questions, scarcely any politicians
 1048 s. 1049 1050 1051 brutum fulmen; Usque adeone mori miserum est? 1052 1053 1054 1055
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that as it appeared likely that this matter would go back for re-consideration, he might be permitted to suggest a further point. The Motion of his hon. and learned Friend was on a very important and very valuable subject, and formed part of the largest questions. The rules which, in the course of centuries, had been elaborated in this House for the conduct of the Business had been most deservedly admired. But difficulties might arise when the House could only have one Amendment on the same point; because, as soon as one Amendment had been rejected, it had resolved that the original Motion should be put unamended. It might be well for the House to examine this point. According to the rule of the French Chamber, whatever number of Amendments there might be moved, the question of precedency was decided in this way:—The Amendment which was farthest from the original Motion was put first, and if this were lost, the others were put in succession. Might it not be as well to adopt the plan here?
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, that if, as some predicted, the effect of passing the second reading of this Bill were to lead to the abolition of capital punishment, he should assuredly regret that he had been among its supporters. He could not agree in that prediction. He for a long time considered private executions anti-English; but the majority of the country, or at any rate of the House, has now decided the question. He protested against the representation of the hon. and learned Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman) that juries had violated their oaths—["No, no!"]—for violating their oaths it is, because they objected to the penalty of death.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  could not see the use of adding the words, "of the general public" after "persons," as the latter included the former.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, the
 1058
 MR. WALPOLE  remarked that the words applying to "relatives" might be taken as giving such persons a right to demand admittance. It would be well to bear this in mind before altering the clause.
 MR. GREGORY  said, the question before them was not, as the hon. Member who had just spoken seemed to suppose, one of softening the heart or saving the souls of murderers, but of preventing the Queen's subjects from being murdered. The balance of all authority, as far as they could arrive at it, was that the punishment of death was the great deterrent for murder. Of the eminent men who composed the Commission of 1866, they had the authority of eight in favour of continuing capital punishment; and as to the four who were for abolishing it, they entered the Commission with minds already made up, having been Members of the Society for the Abolition of Capital Punishment. The opinion of all the Irish Judges was unanimous in favour of retaining that punishment, and the opinion of the English Bench was also unanimous to the same effect, with the exception of that of the late Mr. Justice Shee. The opinions of those best acquainted with the criminal classes were to the same effect. The governors of gaols stated that the fear of death alone restrained the miscreants they had
 1042 1043 1044 1045 "I am all for abolishing the penalty of death, if Messieurs the Assassins would only set the example." 1046
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  thought that the representatives of the Press should have a right to be present, instead of their admission being at the discretion of the authorities, who, perhaps, might in some cases think it desirable that the public should not be furnished with a full account of the proceedings. He should therefore take an opportunity of moving an Amendment to that effect, and would certainly divide the Committee upon it.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  moved the addition of the words, "and so many reporters of the public Press," the effect of which would be to secure the attendance of the representatives of the Press, so that the public might know what official persons
 1062
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  asked, if the representatives of the Press would be allowed to attend the inquests? Were those inquests to be private or public?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE : Will they be open to the public?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK : I understand that there may be official persons present; but will that satisfy the public? This should be arranged beforehand. If the sheriff did not admit any of the public, who were to be the witnesses but the gaoler and hangman?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, a sheriff might have particular views of his own with regard to the admission of unofficial persons to an execution; and supposing the sheriff excluded such persons, who were to be witnesses at the Coroners' inquests?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  explained that it was his intention that the sheriff should admit as many of the general public as could be conveniently accommodated.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  pointed out that boys and young girls might be excluded, as they were now from Courts of Justice in certain cases.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  thought it desirable that a few of the general public should be admitted within the prison. If thirty, twenty, or even ten of the general public were allowed to be present the execution would not be a private one, any more than the Central Criminal Court was a private Court, although only a very limited number of the public could be accommodated in the building. He moved, therefore, an Amendment to the effect that the sheriffs and visiting justices should admit into the gaol as many of the general public as could properly and conveniently be accommodated.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  thought the Bill a move in the right direction—that was to say, towards the total abolition of capital punishment. Public executions were an evil. He himself had had more than once to sentence numbers of persons in the police-court for robbing at executions. He asked whether "within the walls" of the prison would be interpreted within the external boundary walls or actually within the prison itself?
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  moved that the Chairman report Progress with the view to the framing of a clause to protect the interests of reversioners, which, as
 1064
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he would withdraw his Motion to report Progress.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  denied that this clause would meet the difficulty. There might be half-a-dozen lessees, and finally the freeholder, and all those delicate interests required very careful consideration. He therefore hoped that the Chairman would be allowed to report Progress, in order that an opportunity should be afforded for the preparation of a new clause that would effectually protect the interests of reversioners.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, they would not have an opportunity of discussing the matter fully when the Bill was reported, because at that stage hon. Members had only the privilege of addressing the House once. However, he would not further press the point.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  moved the following new clause, which he said was designed to obviate one of the many disadvantages which he believed would attend the working of the Bill if passed in its present form:—
 "This Act shall not apply to any premises as to which the owner of the freehold has instituted proceedings under the covenants contained in the lease under which the premises are held, in order to compel due performance of such covenants, as to repair or for forfeiture of such lease by reason of breach of any such covenants, provided such proceedings are  bonâ fide
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, the description given did not tally with the printed words of the clause.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, the effect of the Bill, even though including the proposed clause, would be to cause a forfeiture of the interests of reversioners, without their having any opportunity to prevent it.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, on this understanding he would, for the present, withdraw the clause.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  moved another clause—
 1066 "This Act shall not apply to any case in which the defective state or condition of the premises is attributable to or occasioned by the act, neglect, or default of the local authority, to put in force the powers for remedy of such defects already vested in such local authority."
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  mentioned the case of mischief being done by the authorities raising a road.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  next moved the following new clause:—
 "In any case where any lessee shall refuse or neglect to execute the works required by the order of the local authority made under this Act, and the owner of the freehold shall elect to execute the same, such refusal or neglect of the lessee shall operate as a forfeiture of his interest in such premises, and if within one calendar month after such refusal or neglect the owner of the freehold shall commence such works, and he shall execute the same without delay, he shall be entitled to hold the said premises free from the interest of such lessee but subject to the payment by the freeholder to the lessee of the value of the interest of such lessee, according to the mode of valuation provided in the nineteenth Clause of this Act."
 MR. POWELL  said, he did not see any objection to the clause.
 MR. POWELL  said the clause was inapplicable.
 MR. POWELL  proposed a clause providing that, in case of leaseholds, the owner of the reversion have power to determine the lease, compensation being paid to the lessee.
 MR. POWELL  said, he thought that in the clause he had proposed he had saved the interest of the reversioner.
 MR. POWELL  then proposed a clause providing that—
 "Application may be made to justices where more than one owner of premises included in order under Act, and any one owner neglects to comply with such order."
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he was of opinion that the clause under consideration had been carefully drawn, and would meet the object of the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid). Every class of interest in property was protected.
 MR. GOLDNEY  suggested to the hon. Baronet to withdraw his Amendment until the clause framed by the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) to meet his objection was considered.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he could not understand how the ruling of the Chairman last night interfered in any way with the privileges or powers of hon. Members in criticizing the Votes. He believed he was right in saying that the effect of the present rules was this, that when the Vote was read from the Chair, any hon. Member might move that it be reduced. If that opportunity were not taken advantage of, and the items of which the Vote consisted had been gone through and discussed and passed, it was not then in the power of any Member to move the reduction of the Vote by any particular sum, though he could still divide the House on the question that the whole Vote be rejected. This seemed to him to be a common-sense and practical method of conducting Supply. It could give rise to no actual inconvenience if hon. Members clearly understood the effect of the rule, and he saw no ground for assenting to refer the point to the consideration of a Committee.
 MR. GOLDNEY  objected to the clause.
 MR. GORST  suggested that it would be well to provide for the attendance at executions of witnesses, independently of officials and the relatives of the criminal, whose evidence would satisfy the coroner's jury as to the mode of death. In Australia the attendance of two justices of the peace was required.
 MR. HIBBERT  suggested that, for the purpose of identification, the presence of relatives of the culprit might in some cases be very important. At present the Governor had the power of admitting them to the gaol to see the procession on its way to the place of execution.
 MR. HIBBERT  thought the speech of the hon. Member (Mr. Darby Griffith) should have been made on the second reading of the Bill. There were many countries in which private executions were established without the inconveniences asserted to be inseparable from them.
 MR. HIBBERT  opposed the Amendment as unnecessary, seeing that it must be left to the discretion of the sheriffs and the visiting justices to say how many people could be accommodated.
 MR. BRUCE  said, that if the House divided he should give his vote for the second reading of the Bill, on the ground that its object was simply to give effect to the Act of 1824. At present the right of Roman Catholics to burial in the parish burial-grounds existed; but it was clear that, as a matter of fact, it had in many cases been refused, not merely to Roman Catholics, but also to Presbyterians and Wesleyans. Indeed the movement in favour of this Bill was far stronger on the part of the Protestant Dissenters of Ireland than on that of the Roman Catholics. He was at a loss to understand why Spain was so often quoted by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. Was it that we should imitate her, or that we should act in the spirit of retaliation? In the name of both sides of the House he repudiated both courses. He had supported the Bill introduced by Sir Morton Peto, but which was unfortunately rejected. They must, however, consider the principles of this Bill in connection with the circumstances of the case; and was it not intolerable that in Ireland a small minority should have power to withhold Christian burial from the great majority of the people?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he believed it was generally conceded that, except in very few instances, the Act of 1824 had been carried out. If, however, there were cases in which it had not been acted upon, there ought to be an amendment in the law. This Bill would require amendment. No provision had been made for the preservation of order in the burial-grounds. If he did not consider that the Bill could be altered in that sense in Committee, he would not vote for the second reading. As the Bill now stood, the bodies of persons belonging to two or three different persuasions might be brought into the graveyard at the same moment. The services had to be performed within a limited space; and when persons entertaining different opinions thus came together, religious animosity might lead to unseemly scenes in the graveyards. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) evidently had some misgivings on that point, for, in the Bill, it was provided that burials should not take place during the hours of Divine worship. He (Mr. Henley) thought it would be desirable, when in Committee, to prescribe at what hours deceased persons of the different religious persuasions should be buried, or to give some power to the rectors to regulate the hours.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  considered that hon. and gallant Member was under unnecessary alarm in supposing that this Bill would occupy any great length of time. Its principle was fully discussed last Session, and the objections then taken to it had been satisfactorily met. He hoped no further objection would be raised to its progress to-day.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in rising to move that the Bill be read a second time this day six months, said:—I cannot help saying that any hon. Member interested in this question, who has inquired into the facts, must be quite sensible that the result of the arrangements made in 1860, and so late as 1867, has been to produce a greatly improved state of feeling in Edinburgh; and the tax is now collected in a way which is very creditable to the people of that city. I do not found upon the absence of agitation as a reason for witholding justice to the people of Edinburgh. Quite the contrary. But I hope the spirit which has existed of late in regard to this matter will
 1092 d. d. 1093 1094 1095 d. d. d. d. d., 1096
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : That may be so; but I do not know why the burden of the Canongate church is to be thrown upon the city churches. The Canongate church and the city churches have always been kept distinct, and I do not know why the city should now bear the burden. Then it is proposed by the Bill to abolish three of the city ministers, which is going further than the Report of the Select Committee or Sir John Lefevre. But five of the city ministers were taken away in 1860. I object to any further reduction, And, with regard to the city ministers, what provision is made for them? They are to be supported out of the seat-rents. These seat-rents produce at present from £1,600 to £1,800 a year, after provision has been made out of them for the repairs of the churches. For the repairs of these churches it is now proposed that the collections at the church doors should be appropriated, amounting to about £1,400 a year. But these collections at the church doors are given for the support of the poor, and we find them a most valuable fund for preventing the spreading of pauperism. There are many persons who, by a little timely aid, are kept from actual pauperism. By this Bill, the collections at the church doors will be taken from the poor; but it does not follow that the congregations will contribute them for the purpose of repairs. I venture to say that, to take this sum away from the poor is a step which this House will not sanction. I submit, therefore, that our proper course is not to countenance this Bill by reading it a second time. It must not be supposed that the Established Church is negligent of its duties. There are other Churches doing their best for the
 1097 "We have to prepare for the services of the Lord's-day. We have to visit the sick, both of our parishes and congregations; we have to visit our congregation, and the inhabitants of our parishes from house to house; we have to set agoing schools, to keep going Sunday-schools; we have to set agoing Bible-classes, we have the poor to attend to. In the Tron Church Parish we have our regular kitchen for providing food for the poor, where there is regular cooking for them. We provide them with clothing, we provide them with coal, we provide their children with education: either paying for it or seeing they are sent to schools where no payment is required. Finding that so many girls who remained in the parish went to utter ruin, we set agoing an industrial school for girls, in order to train them for domestic service. Then, in the Tron parish we have services on the Lord's-day. I do not think I shall be able to carry it on now; but during the life of my venerable colleague we had two services in church at ordinary hours, and then I had a service in the parish for the very poor on Sunday evening. Then we had two other meetings during the week for public worship; one during the day, and one in the evening. The one was superintended by a missionary, and the other was conducted by ourselves. Then, it is to be remembered, that we and the city missionaries have to do with hospitals, and charitable societies; and for myself I have to do with the Infirmary, where I have acted as colleague with Mr. M'Laren very frequently; and I believe I am well employed in attending to the noble charity, because my own parish is very greatly benefited by it. My own congregation is benefited by the Heriot School, by Heriot's Hospital, by Donaldson's Hospital, by the Destitute Sick Society, and by a great many other societies with which I am connected." 1098
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that some most scandalous scenes had taken place in Edinburgh in connection with this subject. The police tax was levied upon all denominations of Christians and Jews, so that the ministers were paid out of a tax contributed mainly by those who did not receive any religious benefit in return. He considered the case exactly analogous to that of church rates in England. He contended that it was most unjust to compel those who did not derive any advantage from the ministrations of these clergy — against whom, as, a body, he did not wish to say a single word; on the contrary, very many of them were distinguished for their piety, zeal, and ability; but what he did say was, that persons of other religious persuasions should not be called upon to pay towards their maintenance and support. No Dissenter ought to be compelled to contribute to this tax. What had been the result of the present state of things in Edinburgh? The Dissenters had offered to pay the tax collector the amount levied upon them for police purposes, but not the proportion which went to the clergy annuity. Of course the tax collector would not receive this, and the arm of the law was brought in; and he would quote to them an instance of what had followed. A respectable shopkeeper was told that the power of the law would be brought to bear against him if he did not pay, and that a distress would be levied upon his goods. He put armour plates around his shop and door; but the local authorities were too strong for him, for they came with a  posse
 MR. LEFROY  said, he regretted that he felt it his duty to oppose the Motion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell). He should, however, regret still more if his motives for doing so were misunderstood. He was therefore anxious to state in the briefest and most temperate language the objections which he entertained to the measure. His right hon. Friend had made a most ingenious speech in support of his Bill, and had drawn off the attention of the House from its objectionable features. The right hon. Gentleman alleged that the objects which Lord Plunket had in view when he introduced his measure upon this subject had been frustrated by the clergy, but he (Mr. Lefroy) could not admit this to be the case. He deemed it necessary to call the attention of the House to the advances which had been made in this matter of late years by the enactment of measures in favour of the Roman Catholics—measures at which he rejoiced. In the reign of William III. the Roman Catholics were deprived of the right of burial even in the monasteries or grounds adjacent, and a penalty of £10 was enacted against any violation of that law. In the reign of George IV. a Bill was introduced by Lord Plunket, the object of which was to do away with that prohibition, and throw open all those burial-places to Roman Catholics. The Act of  Will. 1072 1073
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, the course which the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hughes) proposed to adopt would secure the object which the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Graham) had in view. If he had thought that it would not do so he should certainly have pressed his own Motion for the rejection of the measure to a division. At the same time he was bound to say that he was of opinion that if the Bill did pass into law with the provision of which he had spoken, it would be a dead letter in its operation.
 MR. FRESHFIELD , who had given notice to move that the Bill be read a
 1085
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that Dr. Moriarty, who calls himself Bishop of Kerry, in a letter published, he thought, last autumn, stated that if the property of the Church of Ireland was placed at the disposal of Parliament a portion of it should be appropriated to Roman Catholic purposes. This was stated in a letter which had been published.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, this Bill for Ireland was the same in substance as the Bill which had been introduced for England
 1075 1076 1077
 MR. REARDEN  said, that the people of Ireland were not only not allowed to live in their country, but were not even allowed to be buried in it. He protested against the practice of the hon. Members for North Warwickshire and Bury St. Edmund's (Mr. Newdegate and Mr. Greene) of outraging on all occasions the feelings of the Roman Catholic Members of that House. He had a high respect for the hon. Member for North Warwickshire; but he unnecessarily insulted Roman Catholic Members by his constant reference to the Reformation. He might reply to the hon. Member by saying that Nero was an angel in comparison with Henry VIII.: and as to Elizabeth, he would not say anything of her moral character. The Reformation had led to the establishment of as many different religions as the number of years that had since elapsed. He asked how long the grievances of the Roman Catholics of Ireland were to continue?
 MR. M'LAREN , having presented several petitions in favour of the measure, said: It is not my intention to occupy the House with any very minute details upon this question. The points which I intend to mention are only those which strike one as being the most salient. I will take up the question as it now stands, mainly as a question of practical grievance. It is the only remains of a church rate which now exists in Edinburgh. That part of it which is distinctly a church rate is the payment which, by an Act passed in 1860, is fixed at £4,200 annually out of the police rates of the city in aid of the stipends of ministers. There is also another small indirect impost; but I will not take up the time of the House by entering into that point at present. The tax has been very much complained of, and it has been a constant source of heartburning and ill-will. I will take the liberty of reading two sentences from a petition which I have presented to-day from Mr. Archibald Young. This gentleman states that he belongs to the Baptist denomination, and that the doctrines of that Church preclude its members from paying anything towards the support of any other Establishment, and that he and his father have resisted doing so. On three occasions he has been dragged through the Courts of Law; and since the passing of the Act of 1860 he has had to pay £50 for legal expenses for opposing the levying of the rate; and since that time he has been dragged into the Court of Session for payment of the arrears of the old Annuity Tax, and is thereby likely to sustain an additional loss of £150. He therefore approves of this Bill as likely to put a stop to this long-vexed question. The petition is but a fair example of others which might be quoted from persons who have been put to very large expenses on account of this tax. The tax has injured the collection of the other rates of the city, which are mixed up with it, in such a degree that a very large loss occurs annually in the collection. Now, the remedy proposed in this Bill is a very simple one. I propose that out of the endowed churches of the City of Edinburgh the stipend of three of the ministers should be discontinued, and this would relieve a sum of £1,800 annually, and leave them
 1088 1089 1090 s. 1091
 MR. M'LAREN  rose to reply. He said, in respect to the alleged compromise, I will just mention a fact, rather
 1105
 MR. M'LAREN : I beg to explain that that is not so. The Canongate minister is not to depend upon the seat-rents in his own church, but those seat-rents are to be amalgamated with the seat-rents of the city churches. The Canongate seat-rents and the city seat-rents, with the income from the other accumulated funds, would give the minister of the Canongate £250.
 MR. M'LAREN : I am referring to the hon. Member's own father, who was a most anxious promoter of this Bill. Well, now, let me refer to another subject. I have been twitted with my opinions in 1853. That is a long time ago; and I have got wiser since that time, not only upon this, but upon many subjects. But let me say this much, that I was then in favour of household suffrage, and the abolition of the Irish Church; and yet hon. Gentlemen have made good speeches on these subjects now, while they were strongly opposed to them at the time I speak of. We live in changing times. It is said that by this Bill we are placing the Church on the voluntary system. But hon. Gentlemen who say so would appear not to know the meaning of the voluntary principle. Now, what is its meaning? Why, it means finding everything for themselves. But does this Bill propose anything like that? Certainly not. Under this Bill the clergy will get their £4,000 for seat-rents, and the £2,000 from the city of Edinburgh. Surely, then, this Bill cannot be the introduction of the voluntary system. The Lord Advocate knows well enough that this question will never be settled except on some such basis as that which I now propose. It is of no use blinking the matter. The attempt to put a stop to this grievance must ultimately succeed; and I think it would be a wise thing for the Lord Advocate to withdraw himself from the position which he has taken in connection with the matter. If the Bill fails once or twice, you may be sure the agitation will be continued; and ultimately you may find a measure carried going much, further than the one at present under the consideration of the House. Under these circumstances, I hope the House will consent to read the Bill a second time.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had voted against this Bill on a former occasion, because he thought a compromise had been entered into between the parties; but since
 1107
 MR. GREENE  said, he could not allow the Bill to pass through another stage without entering his strongest protest against it. He felt that the time had come when it was the duty of that House to watch narrowly the progress of events. So far as he could form an opinion upon this subject it did not appear to him that there was any practical grievance affecting the Roman Catholics. He thought that the passing of the present measure would lead to scenes in Ireland which they would all deprecate. Although he was willing to give every liberty to the Roman Catholics, consistently with the security of the Established Church and its rights, he could not yet fail to remember the narrow views of the Romish Church, which interdicted all liberty of conscience and all freedom of action in its members. He said they were advancing towards a state of things that demanded their most serious consideration. To allow the Roman Catholic Church all the privileges of the Church of England was inconsistent with the maintenance of the principles of the Reformation or the national religion. This measure, if passed, would let in the keen edge of the wedge to be followed by further aggression. So long as he had the honour of a seat in that House he would raise his voice against any proposition for the progress of the Romish Church. The hierarchy of that Church not only sought for greater spiritual power in the country, but also for temporal power. One concession after another had been given them by Protestant England with a view to conciliation. Let the people of England mark well what was going on, and take warning in time. Although he should run the risk of being called illiberal, he should certainly feel it his duty if a division took place to vote against the second reading of this Bill.
 COLONEL FRENCH  wanted to know
 1086
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  hoped that the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel French) would be prepared to facilitate the passing of the measures to which he had alluded. But, as the House knew, certain questions had been raised, for which the Government were not responsible, and which interfered with the progress of those measures; and the sooner those questions were out of the way the better the Government would be pleased, in order that they might go on with the business before the House. With respect to the present Bill, he thought there would be ample time to discuss it, and, without committing himself to the support of the third reading, he was prepared to accept the position taken last year by his predecessor. He thought the Bill should be allowed to go into Committee, and it would afterwards be seen whether the measure in its details was one which could be approved by the House. That was the view taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) last year, and he (Mr. G. Hardy) thought the course was one which might be adopted with convenience now. At the same time he thought that considerable weight was to be attached to the objections both of the Mover and Seconder of the Amendment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Bill did not merely relate to Roman Catholics, but also had reference to the members of other Christian denominations. He begged to point out that in the burial-ground belonging to the denomination of Christians to which he belonged a very simple arrangement was adopted. It was open to all classes of Christians who chose to use it, who might perform such religious ceremonies as they desired; or, if they preferred, there might be no religious ceremony at all. No difficulty had been found in arranging the interments of different classes, under reasonable restrictions as to time, and other matters of a reasonable nature. The sting of the Bill, in the opinion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, seemed to be, not the burial of Roman Catholics, but of Protestant Dissenters, in the Church of England burial grounds. The hon. Gentleman seemed to have a greater dislike to Dissenters than to Roman Catholics, and lost no opportunity that the forms of the House permitted of opposing
 1082
 MR. CRUM-EWING : I beg to second the Motion. I shall only say that if this House is of opinion that justice in matters of religious belief ought to be done to the people of Ireland, it will also do justice to the people of Scotland, and do away with a tax which has been a fertile source of discontent and strife in the city of Edinburgh. After the very excellent reasons given by my hon. Friend who introduced this Bill why it should be read a second time, I will not occupy the attention of the House by any further observations.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  supported the Bill. As a Scotchman, he protested against the views of Gentlemen opposite who opposed the Bill. In Scotland persons of all denominations were allowed to have their own religious service at their burial. He hoped the House would not pledge itself by rejecting this Bill to pursue a bigoted policy in religious matters.
 MR. MONCREIFF : As I carried through the Bill of 1860, I will say a few words on the Motion before the House. I shall vote in favour of the Amendment of my right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, not so much on the merits of the Bill, as because I think the settlement of 1860 was fair and equitable under the circumstances of the case; and it is not desirable to disturb that arrangement. But on the subject of the merits of the Bill, I will simply say that I doubt very much whether its finance will at all come up to the representations of the hon. Member. The substance of the Bill in point of finance is simply this—that the Established Church is left to its own voluntary resources, with the exception of the £2,000, about which the hon. Member for Leith has made so loud a complaint, the seat-rents, and the church-door collections. So far as the £2,000 is concerned, I do not think the hon. Member for Leith need be much disturbed; because if this Bill were to pass this year, next year we may find more empty churches, and on the same principle as that on which my hon. Colleague has introduced His Bill, Leith would be relieved from the payment of the £2,000. With regard to the rest of the finance of the Bill, the £4,200 can only be made available after the seat-rents—on the assumption that the church-door collections are sufficient to maintain the fabric of the building. I doubt very much whether that will be found to be the case, even if it were desirable to apply these collections in that way. If the collections were so applied, they would soon fall off in amount; and if it is intended to keep this as an endowment for the Established Church, I believe it will turn out to be an illusive idea. The question whether we should have an Established Church in Scotland is another matter altogether; but
 1101 1102 1103 d. 1104
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would not have interfered in this discussion, if it had not been for the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), who seemed to be under a singular misapprehension, both as to the question before the House, and the scope of the Bill proposed by his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell). The hon. Member compared
 1078 "That if such permission [referring to the permission for burial] be in any case withheld, the cause of withholding the same shall be specially and distinctly declared in writing by such officiating minister of the Church of England, one part of which written declaration shall forthwith be delivered to the person making such application as aforesaid, and one other part thereof shall be transmitted to the Bishop of the diocese in which such churchyard shall be situated, and shall be by him forthwith forwarded to the Lord Lieutenant, signed by the registrar, &c." 1079 1080
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he apprehended that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would rather have the vote than the advocacy of the hon. Member for Leith (Mr. Miller). As he understood the hon. Member, he would disestablish the Church, at any rate disendow it, by withdrawing
 1099 1100 d.
 THE SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman
 1106
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that it would not be competent for him, in explanation, to reply to the speech just made. He must confine himself to any point on which he might himself have been misunderstood.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member could not now make that Motion.
 MR. HUBBARD  rose to move that the Bill be read the second time that day six months.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, this was not so simple a case as had been described, for the Bill was supported by different speakers on contradictory premises. He did not wish to refer to the question which lurked behind this Bill—namely, that of the Irish Church. The Act of 1824 had, in the great majority of cases, worked well. Power was by that Act reserved to the clergy, because on that power depended the whole legal position of the Church in Ireland; and if it had not been an act of indulgence, but a right as this Bill proposed, there would have been no Established Church in Ireland. They could not accept this Bill without anticipating the great solution of the Irish Church difficulty which was looming before them. The Bill now before the House would be as complete an abolition of the legal  status 1083
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  thought that the House would stultify itself by passing a measure involving two opposite principles. If the Bill would be a dead letter after the insertion of the provision respecting the Act of Charles II., what was the good of passing it at all? He should certainly vote against the second reading.
 MR. PIM  was glad that the hon. Member for the University of Dublin did not intend to divide the House. He hoped that the House would unanimously agree to the second reading of the Bill. There were many cases in which a clergyman would believe it to be his duty to refuse the permission sought; while, at the same time, no real ground could be urged why it should not be given. A large number of Roman Catholics in Ireland had been buried for centuries in the parochial burial-grounds; and it was very galling to a Roman Catholic that he was obliged to get permission for the priest to read the service over the remains of a relative. But Protestant Dissenters complained on this subject as well as Roman Catholics. He had a few days since presented a petition from the Presbyterians of Dublin, in which they asked that "they should no longer be subject to this grievance, which they conceived to be as inconsistent with the spirit of the age as it is uncongenial to that of the Gospel." He held in his hand a
 1074
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  hoped the House would not divide, but read the Bill a second time. The clergymen of the Church of Ireland had hitherto been placed in a false position. The Act of 1824 gave the right, not the privilege, of being buried in the Church burial-grounds in Ireland, which in many instances had been refused. Those who objected to the Bill showed that they had not advanced as they ought to have dune as to their sense of what was due from them to the members of other religious denominations. At the grave all religious differences ought to be forgotten. If there was a wedge at all in this case, the thin end had been inserted by the Bill of 1824. He was, he believed, as sincere a Protestant as any Gentleman in that House; but he thought he acted in thorough conformity with Protestant principles in supporting the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, the Bill had been introduced to prevent the continuance of a great scandal, and to promote conciliation, and not for the purpose of giving any right to the Roman Catholic Church beyond those of other religious bodies. He had supported Sir Morton Peto's Bill. He assured the House that there was in Ireland a strong feeling of reverence for the dead; and consequently there was a great desire that a religious ceremony should be performed over the grave. He recommended the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) to turn his attention to Lutheran
 1081
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  thought it was most undesirable that the question of Sunday observance should be muddled by a Bill which would involve two conflicting principles. Until the question could be dealt with in a much broader and more satisfactory way we had better leave things as they were. He should, therefore, second the Amendment, though upon quite different grounds from those urged by the Mover.
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  rose to move the second reading of this Bill. It was precisely similar in character to the Bill which the House read a second time last year, with the approval of the then Secretary of State for the Home Department, and which was afterwards considered in Committee of the House, when certain Amendments were inserted. That Bill, however, ultimately became a dropped Order at the end of the Session, and what he now asked the House to do was to place the Bill in exactly the same position as that in which it was left last year. When the second reading was agreed to last year, it was upon the understanding that in case the Bill came out of Committee in an objectionable form, then every hon. Member should be perfectly at liberty to oppose the third reading. That was a perfectly reasonable underderstanding, and he was quite prepared to act on it if the same course were adopted this year. The Bill was printed in the same form as last year, and the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of the City of London (Mr. Russell Gurney), which had been agreed to by the Committee, not being embodied, he (Mr. Hughes) proposed to read the Bill a second time  pro formâ,
 MR. GRAHAM  opposed the second reading. The exceptions contained in the Bill were so numerous as to weaken the legal sanction hitherto given to the observance of the Sabbath. They would constitute a fulcrum by means of which the enemies of the Sabbath observance would work hereafter for the further infraction of the Sabbath. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. MILLER  desired to make some observations upon the speech which had just been delivered; but—
 MR. MILLER : I must claim the indulgence of the Speaker.
 MR. MILLER  seconded the Motion, not so much on the grounds which had been so excellently stated by the right hon. and learned Lord as on account of the injustice that it did to the interests of Leith. It provided that the stipends of the Edinburgh ministers should be provided out of £4,200 to be obtained from seat rents and £2,000 from the revenues of Leith Docks. It was true that for some time past this sum of £2,000 had been levied from the Leith revenues. His constituents had never agitated for its abolition, because they felt that in any scheme for abolishing the Annuity Tax their claim would also be attended to. But now it was proposed that while the tax was to be abolished as far as Edinburgh was concerned, it was to be maintained upon the harbour and port of Leith. If he asked the hon. Member for Edinburgh why this tax was to be continued, no doubt he would say, as he had often said before that the docks and harbours of Leith were originally the property of the city of Edinburgh. It was, however, very easy to prove the fallacy of this argument. In 1838 the Corporation of the city of Edinburgh being bankrupt, brought in a Bill to sell the Leith harbours and docks to a joint-stock company, for £25,000, and the titles of the city were inquired into, and it was then found that the city had no right of property—that the harbour was public property, and was vested in the corporation in trust. If Edinburgh were to be relieved from the burden of supporting her ministers Leith ought to be relieved also.
 MR. MONSELL , in rising to move the second reading of this Bill, said he thought he could show that the grievances to which it referred were so serious that even in the present Session they ought
 1068 1069 "For some unknown cause many of the clergy of the Church of England about Dublin and through the South have, during the last three or four years, considered it necessary to assert their dignity and rights in this miserable and odious way. In all directions our clergy are being excluded from the parish graveyards. It is impossible to hear any longer with a state of things which is becoming worse, for such refusals are becoming the usage and the rule." 1070 "Sir, I cannot grant the request made in your name; but I will be ready to perform the funeral service of the Church if called on by the friends of the late Mrs. Miller." "The Act of Parliament leaves it entirely at the discretion of the incumbent to grant or refuse the permission, and gives the Bishop no right to interfere. You will observe that I have done all that the law requires or permits me to do in this case." 1071
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, as the hon. Member for Buckingham had omitted to make the Motion in his speech, he would do so. He said Protestants had as much, if not more, reason to complain of the language used by Roman Catholics towards Protestants than the former had of the latter. The remarks they had just listened to were not calculated to conciliate Protestants.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What course the Government intend to take as to the reform of the Middlesex Registry Office, and whether il-
 1147
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that an official inquiry had been made by Mr. Greenwood into the circumstances of the Middlesex Registry Office, which had been laid on the table of the House. The House was aware that the Landed Estates Court had not answered the expectations formed of it, and the Lord Chancellor had issued a Commission on that Court, and he had thought it right to add to the inquiry the subject of the Middlesex Registry, thinking the two subjects to be kindred. He had received a note from the Registrar that day stating that illegal fees were not received at the Office.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the inquiry would not extend to the Yorkshire Registry Office.
 LORD STANLEY  replied that he had received information that such a Treaty had recently been signed; but, as he had not yet received a Copy, he was unable to state its provisions. As soon as he received a Copy he would take steps for making them known. No doubt they would be a matter of interest to the commercial community of London.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether, in view of the expected modifications in the Treaty of Tien-tsin this year, an opportunity will be afforded to Members of the House to consider any changes before they are finally adopted?
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that there was no absolute necessity for modifying the Treaty this year; and he could only state in reply to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that he had no power to depart from the constitutional practice under which Treaties were made upon the re-
 1148
 LORD STANLEY,  in reply, said, he had received the Report alluded to by the hon. Member, and he proposed including it in the next collection of printed Papers on the subject.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I congratulate the right hon. Gentleman upon this—that if he has been in some respects, as I think, unfortunate in the circumstances under which he has acceded to the duties of an arduous office, he has laid before us, with great pains and ability, a very full statement of all information which, as he thought, would tend to improve our means of judgment upon the important question he has submitted to the Committee. I need not say that I do not propose to enter at large upon the matter contained in the right hon. Gentleman's speech; but the
 1170 1171 1172 1173 Primâ facie,
 MR. GLADSTONE : £860,000,
 MR. GLADSTONE : Very well, there are some points which might be made matter of detailed argument; but the margin of dispute between us is not very large, and even if I accept the data of the right hon. Gentleman it will not in the least interfere with my proposition. Therefore, I have to compare £41,000,000 with the sum of £38,165,000, at which the Estimates stood in 1866–7; and I show an addition to the permanent charge of the country, within what has not yet been the full financial year, of £2,840,000. Well as the whole of this Abyssinian deficit amounts to £2,078,000, the appearance of the matter is this—that had we continued at the point of expenditure where we were two years ago—and I, for one, have never concealed my opinion that that was a very high point—instead of the right hon. Gentleman being now obliged to condole with himself, and my being obliged to condole with him on the nature of the appeal that he makes to us, he would have appeared before us, notwithstanding the financial crisis, notwithstanding the bad harvest and the comparatively unfavourable state of the Revenue, with a
 1174 1175
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman had referred to his remarks the other night, he wished to say now, that if the Chairman of the Committee had not ruled him to be out of order, he was prepared to prove the statement he had made, that the Civil Service Estimates had been steadily and rapidly increasing. In the matter of salaries alone there was a net increase of £48,000. Other items were in proportion, and the result was, that the net increase in all the Departments amounted to £1,207,476. His right hon. Friend appeared to think that he had not deducted those sums which now appeared on both sides of the Estimates for the first time; but he begged to say that he was not in the habit of dealing so loosely with figures; and he found that the actual increase of permanent charge, after those deductions, amounted to £431,000. The contrast between the military and naval expenditure of the present and former financial years was not less striking. The Navy Estimates, as compared with those of two years ago, showed a net increase of £201,037, and those for the Army of £203,200. In the French Navy budget for 1868–9 there was an increase of £607,451; nevertheless, the total charge was only £6,529,510; while the charge for the British Navy was £11,177,290. The charge for the French Army was increased this year by £1,342,532; but the whole cost for 1,200,000 men, including reserves, was £15,267,782; and the British charge was £15,455,400 for 136,650 men and officers, exclusive of militia, reserves, &c. The same contrast is exhibited in the total expenditure of France for the year, which is £65,111,367; and that of England £69,600,218, besides £2,166,023 for the
 1176
 MR. WHITE  said, it would seem, from what fell from the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), that the poorer
 1181 s. s. s. d. d. s. d. d. s. d. d. s. s. d., d. 1182
 MR. GLADSTONE : I wish, Sir, to ask upon what day the Government propose to proceed with their financial measures? The business of the House next week will be of a rather absorbing character, as there will be the three Resolutions on the subject of the Irish Church to consider. I am of opinion that it will not be convenient to run the risk of interrupting the discussion on them. And perhaps the Government will be kind enough to tell us, whether Monday week or some similar day, will suit them for proceeding with their proposal relating to the Income Tax?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had rather overstated the case in supporting the Bill. It did not recite that errors had been committed; but that doubts had been raised in consequence of the objections which had been taken to the schemes relative to the Chapters of Westminster and Norwich, which it was desirable to set at rest. The fullest publicity had attended every step that was taken with respect to the Orders it was proposed to declare valid. The Bill by no means stated that an error had existed. All it did was to provide that, in case any errors had been committed in the exercise of the powers of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, no person should suffer, and that the acts of the Commissioners should be valid from, the time they had been done.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the decision of the Privy Council did not throw any doubt on the validity of the Orders affecting the Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. He might mention that, in accordance with the usual practice of the Privy Council in such cases, the grounds on which they held certain Orders to be bad had not been stated.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he presumed that neither the hon. Member for Whitehaven nor any other hon. Member meant to oppose the passing of the Bill, because justice to parties affected by Orders in Council required that it should become law. He rose, however, to ask his right hon. Friend (Mr. G. Hardy) a question of some importance—namely, whether, if the powers of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were not then sufficient they, should not be enlarged for the purpose of dealing with those Chapters which they had not yet dealt with? Anyone acquainted with the subject must know that nothing could be worse than the management of those ecclesiastical estates under the old system. It was for the interest of the Chapters and lessees, and public at large, that this worst possible management should in all cases be put an end to. As the Ecclesiastical Commission, and the large means in their hands, afforded an opportunity of getting rid of that mode of managing property, it
 1200
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he did not dispute the success which had attended the operation of the new dog tax, but that it had been attained partly at the expense of a very deserving body of men. The tax fell heavy upon shepherds' dogs, a result which was in direct antagonism to the principles which had always guided the House in legislating for the rural population, that of exempting animals employed in operations of husbandry. Cart-horses were exempted from taxation upon that principle; and could anybody say that a shepherd's dog was not equally indispensable in the performance of daily avocations upon the large grazing farms in the North of England? He thought that the tax upon shepherds' dogs was an improper tax; and on the proper occasion he should do his best to induce the Government to deal with the matter.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that, in point of fact, the Room referred to by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman had not for some time been used for the purposes of a Conference. It had been
 1149
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member for Liverpool not to bring on a Motion which stood in his name on the Paper for to-morrow, on the ground that the subject-matter of that Motion was now under inquiry by a Committee of the House. The counsel for the Southampton Dock Company had urged upon the attention of the Committee the very point which the hon. Member proposed to bring forward. It was therefore very inconvenient to ask the House to debate the question before the evidence was taken or reported, and which had, by a decision of the House itself, been referred to the investigation of a Committee.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had listened attentively to the illustration which the hon. and learned Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Bentinck) had given of the devotion of Gentlemen opposite to the abuses of the Established Church; but he thought it inopportune upon an occasion like that to enter upon a consideration of the general question of Cathedral establishments, or of the proceedings generally of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. The Bill recited nothing more than that certain errors had been committed which it was expedient to
 1198
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Report of his Highness Ali Pasha upon the condition of the Island of Crete has been communicated to Her Majesty's Government; and, if so, whether he has any objection to lay it upon the Table of the House?
In answer to  MR. LAYARD,  the noble Lord said the Treaty would not be renewed without some modification.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the interest with which the Financial Statement is generally received—so far, at least, as regards the retrospect of the past year—is, on this occasion, somewhat lessened by the fact that a partial review of the financial position of the country was given to the House in November
 1150 1151 d. d. d. 1152 Laughter. 1153 s. s. 1154 1155 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160 1161 1162 1163 d., d., 1164 1165 1166 d. d. d. d. d. d. d. 1167 d. d. d. d. 1168 1169
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The deductions should be more than that.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : How much have you taken off?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said: Sir, I do not know whether any other Member of the Committee desires to offer any observations upon the Financial Statement; but with regard to the Question just asked by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, I may at once say that, we desire to put the Resolutions, which are necessary to carry out the proposals of the Government, for Monday week. I cannot, Sir, but feel gratified by the manner in which the proposals which I have had the honour to submit to the Committee have been generally received. My hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. Baring) has taken objection to our proposal to meet from the Income Tax the whole expenditure for the Abyssinian Expedition, and he said that that was a precedent which could be easily and frequently followed. He omitted, however to observe that I stated that we proposed to limit that charge to the Income Tax; on the ground that this was merely a temporary addition to our expenditure, and that, had we contemplated that this extraordinary expenditure would continue, we should have felt it our duty to propose an increase of duty on some article of general consumption. Therefore, the views which I put before the Committee certainly did not lead to the inference which my hon. Friend drew from them. Several hon. Members who have spoken have objected to the proposition to issue Exchequer Bonds, saying it is the creation of debt. I hold that the transaction is a perfectly legitimate one; because at the
 1191 s. s. s. 1192 1193 1194 d. Resolved,
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to move an Amendment in the Schedule to the effect that the Bill should apply to the Orders relating to certain benefices reputed to be in the patronage of the Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol as well as to the Orders referring to the estates of the Dean and Chapter of Bristol.
 MR. MONK  said, he had no intention of throwing any obstacle in the way of the passing of the Bill. In fact his only objection to it was that it did not go far enough, as it did not include the two schemes relative to the Chapters of Norwich and Westminster. The Bill ought also to contain a clause regulating the transfer of the estates of the other six Chapters. They ought all to be put on the same footing. He confessed that he could see no reason to doubt that the Orders in Council had the same force as the Act itself. He thought that 3 & 4  Vict.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that a considerable portion of the deficit now to be provided for might be as fairly ascribed to the operations of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire in converting permanent into terminable annuities as to the Other causes which had been assigned for it. The Budget of last year was a contemptible exhibition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer of that day; and as we had it on the authority of an ancient writer that imitators were a very servile race, the Chancellor of that day only said ditto to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, and who he must still call the late Chancellor of the Exchequer. With regard to the proposed increase of the Income Tax, that particular species of taxation, though it might not press heavily on the richer classes, fell with peculiar severity upon small annuitants and clerks who had to keep up a respectable appearance upon less than £200 a year, while the well-paid mechanic escaped its incidence. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had naturally adopted the rough and ready mode which came first to his hand for raising the money he required; but, for his own part, he must reserve to himself the liberty of renewing the proposal he had made last year for the relief of incomes under £200 per annum from an impost extremely onerous to their possessors.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  hoped that nothing should be done to disturb the arrangements of the financial scheme of last year for creating annuities that were to terminate in 1885. When they compared the price of our national funds with that of other parts of the world, they might feel well satisfied not to disturb existing arrangements for the reduction of the Debt, and which tended to place the credit of the country in that proud position. This year, besides the arrangements made for the payment of the annuities, they had laid out about £900,000 in the reduction of the National Debt; and he would suggest that when it was necessary to issue the Exchequer Bonds, for which, credit would
 1190
 MR. M'LAREN  submitted that the tax on shepherds' dogs was levied from the wrong person. The shepherd must, keep two dogs—one to scatter the sheep and send them to the hill; the other to bring them back. The shepherd paid a tax of 5 s. 1189 s. s.
 MR. AKROYD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he has received information that a Treaty of Commerce has recently been signed between Spain and Prussia on the part of the Germanic Confederation; and, if he can state what are the main provisions of that Treaty, and whether he can lay upon the Table of the House a Copy of the same?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would express a hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would accede to the appeal which had been addressed to him by his right hon. Friend behind him.
 MR. GREENE  said, he was of opinion that a very considerable saving might be effected in the national expenditure; but he did not believe that would be accomplished until political strife was laid aside and the financial affairs of the nation were considered in a calm and deliberate manner. He had never heard the question fairly brought before the House during the long period the Liberal party were in power. In fact, during their tenure of office, particularly during the time of Lord Palmerston's Government, the expenditure had increased several millions a year. Speaking as a man of business, he could see many ways of collecting the taxes at a less cost, and also how taxation might be increased and yet be less burdensome than now. A large saving might be effected on the cost of collecting the national Revenues. But so long as they were engaged in party conflicts they could never settle down to the far more important business of taxation. Under all the circumstances he thought that the mode in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought the Budget before them was highly satisfactory. The country had had two bad harvests—last year and the year preceding. There was at present a prospect of a good harvest; and if that should turn out to be the case, the price of corn would fall, and there would again be an increase in the consumption of articles of Excise.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, On how many occasions the present Conference Room has been used for a Conference?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in rising to move that the House resolve itself into Committee on this Bill, said that the object of the Bill was to give validity to certain Orders in Council relative to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. Since 1852 eighteen Orders in Council had been made, and those Orders had been submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown, and had gone through the same process as the two which had recently been pronounced invalid by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. Under those Orders great changes had been effected, sales of estates had been made, and the position of persons had been
 1195
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was very anxious that the question to which the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock had referred should be settled if possible. Parliament seemed to have practically laid down, by having accepted what had been done for many years past, the process which ought to be adopted. Therefore the simple question to be considered—and that was the only point on which he felt any difficulty—was the manner in which a measure on the subject should be drafted in order to make the matter perfectly clear. If such a Bill could be prepared, and he thought it could, he should certainly be most happy to bring it forward.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that after the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary he should not move
 1201
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had placed an Amendment on the Paper, that the House should resolve itself into Committee that day six months, not with a view to defeating the Bill, but for the purpose of eliciting a full discussion. The Orders in Council which the Bill proposed to render valid were nothing but Acts of Parliament passed without the Parliamentary discussion to which those Acts were entitled. Not the least objection to the proposed legislation was that it would legalize all the abuses of the old system. In old times the Deans and Chapters systematically neglected the trusts reposed in them, and,
 1196
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Bentinck), in the interest of those who were the purchasers of property from the Ecclesiastical Commissioners since 1852, when the first of the Orders in Council was passed, to withdraw his opposition. An immense mass of property had been sold under those Orders, not only in York but in other dioceses, and it would be unjust to the present owners if the Bill did not pass. He was also in favour of extending the powers of the Commission to the other Cathedrals.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he thought a good case had been made out against taxing shepherds' dogs. He could not help thinking that the Financial Statement which they had heard was much more serious than they might at first suppose it to be. Put it as they liked, the fact was that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was going to borrow £1,000,000. He, indeed, said that it was to be a temporary loan; but were the finances in such a condition that they could see that next year they would be in a better position than they now were to pay off this temporary loan?
 1187 d. 1188 s.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the Estimates he has received from Bombay of the sums expended on behalf of the Abyssinian Expedition are sufficiently full and accurate to enable the Government correctly to calculate its aggregate cost up to the present time?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was so clear
 1183 d. d. 1184
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he believed the criticisms to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer's statement had been subjected were founded on erroneous views of the case. His right hon. Friend the Member for South Lancashire had spoken of the demand made for additional taxation as being occasioned not by the Abyssinian War, but by an exceptional and unnecessary increase of ordinary expenditure; but before the Government was condemned on account of this, it was necessary to inquire whether that increase of ordinary expenditure could have been avoided. Now, he had heard from all sides, without contradiction, that the late Government had left the defences of the country at an improperly low ebb, so that the present Government was under the necessity of raising the expenditure to correct the error of their predecessors. And if we had spent less during the past two years on the Army and Navy than we had by £3,000,000, should we have been in possession of that sum as a surplus? He apprehended not. A reduction in our expenditure would have entailed a reduction in our taxation. The Abyssinian demand would, in that case, have come upon
 1180
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to one particular point. The right hon. Gentleman was about to meet a portion of the expenditure by the issue of Exchequer Bonds, which, whenever it might be paid, was still to be borrowed in the same way as the permanent Debt. Now, the right hon. Gentleman was aware that last year a charge was made upon the Consolidated Fund, which, however it might be acquired, was simply the addition of an annuity towards the extinction of the National Debt. He alluded to the Act known as the Terminable Annuities Act, by which the debt due to the Savings Banks was supposed to be wiped off; but the only result of it was that au annuity was charged upon the Consolidated Fund, out of the proceeds of which there was paid every year the sums necessary to meet the demands of the Savings Banks, and the remainder went to extinguish Consols. Now, when the right hon. Gentleman asked for power to issue Exchequer Bonds while this annuity was to be met, this was really to proceed upon the plan condemned by every financier—the paying off debt with borrowed money. He hoped, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman would tell him whether, in his opinion, it was a sound principle to go on paying off debt when they had to borrow money for an expensive war; or, whether he did not think the necessities of the State did not require them for the present to suspend the operation of the Terminable Annuities Act?
 MR. T. BARING : I hope the House will indulge me for a few minutes, in order to express my opinion on this question; and I think it the more my duty to do so, for unfortunately my opinions are in opposition to those who have already addressed the House, and certainly they are not in accordance with what is represented to be the general and popular feeling. The proposition of the right hon. Gentleman is, that the whole charge for the
 1177 1178
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he regretted that he could not comply with the request made by the noble Lord. The restrictions which had been imposed entailed a serious loss upon the importers, butchers, and consumers of meat, and he therefore felt bound to press his Motion.
 MR. STACPOOLE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Why the Political Section of the Administration Report for 1862, made by Colonel Davidson, resident at Hyderabad, for which an Address was ordered on the 20th August, 1867, has not been included in the Papers laid before Parliament?
 MR. POWELL  stated, that for the same reason he would not proceed with the Amendment which stood in his name.
 MR. POWELL  said, the Bill was of a very beneficent nature, and he should be sorry to see any obstacle thrown in the way of passing it. The opposition to it, more especially at that time, was very inopportune. The question, stripped of its technicalities, was substantially one between the wealthy Chapters and the great Cathe-
 1199
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he hoped the hon. Member would not press his Amendment.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that though his hon. Friend had had his Notice on the Paper for a considerable time, no real opposition could be offered to the measure. The object of legislation had been to put an end to the abuses of the system under which capitular property had been managed, and if he wanted a strong instance of the advantages to be gained by the extinction of those abuses, he would take the Chapter to which the hon. Member (Mr. Bentinck) had referred. In 1852 the Chapter of Carlisle had a revenue of £6,200 a year, derived from fines. The estates whence it was derived were, in that year, handed over to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and in 1865 the Chapter was re-endowed, and the Commissioners proceeded to consider the claims of the poor livings. Under the new system the
 1197
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : From some observations which have been made in the course of this debate, it would appear that the statement of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to the Abyssinian Expedition has been a little misunderstood. My right hon. Friend gave his calculation as to the probable amount of expenditure, supposing the expedition were to terminate by the end of May. He said he took that expenditure at the rate of £600,000 a month for five months, beginning with January and ending with May; and he mentioned among the items of which this was made up, one of £400,000 for transport. Upon this my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes) assuming that the expedition would not terminate in May, says, "You will have this item of £400,000 a month for transport running on," and he calculated what that would come to in a year. But it should be understood that the mode in which the Estimate had been made was this—we had received information from Bombay upon which that statement was founded; and at that particular time we had a very large fleet of transports plying between Bombay and the Red Sea, and which vessels were required at that moment. The cost of that transport was, as well as we could reckon it, £400,000 a month; but it never was believed that the cost of transport would be permanent at £400,000 a month. It happened that the vessels which had been taken up were now to a large extent discharged; and if we had to employ means to fetch away the men and what remained of the supplies, we could do it at a much smaller expenditure than £400,000 a month. But in order to make the matter more safe, we thought it desirable that the cost of transport should be estimated at the same for the five months; and we fully believed that the expenditure would be covered by the Vote which we proposed to take. The quantity of stores sent to Abyssinia has been extremely large, owing to the great uncertainty in which we stood as to the probable duration of the Expedition, and also as to what would be necessary with the prospect of the rainy season in view. But there is now in the country a supply that would suffice for the whole force till the month of November, so that no more supplies will be required. When the time comes for the return of the troops, we hope that means may be found for dis-
 1186
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that there was no Political Section in the Administration Report of 1861–2; and though there was such a Section in the Administration Report of 1862–3, it had no bearing upon the Returns laid before Parliament.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that the accounts received from Bombay were, he regretted to say, neither so full nor so accurate as he could have wished. They had, however, been placed in the hands of a gentleman of great experience in connection with military expeditions, and he had been engaged in making an Estimate which might be relied upon as much as any Estimate of the kind could be.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE,  in moving for leave to introduce a Bill "to amend in certain respects the Act for the better Government of India," and another Bill "to define the powers of the Governor General of India in Council at meetings for making Laws and Regulations, and to make better provision for making Laws and Regulations for certain parts of India, and for certain other purposes," said: I might have put these two subjects into a single amending Bill, but they were separated for this reason—the first of the two Bills is one of a limited character, but one which, if the House want to alter the position of the Council in India, it is important they should pass this Session; the second Bill contains provisions of a miscellaneous character, which possibly the House might desire to take more time in considering. It is necessary, with regard to the first Bill, that anything which this House may do should be done at once; because, it is certain that, in the course of
 1202 1203 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215 1216
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, he wished to complain of a grievance which arose from an Act passed during last Session; but, before doing so, desired to congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on the manner in which he had
 1179
 MR. J. PEEL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the Act of 1863, which is said to have led to the mismanagement and failure of the Bank of Bombay, was not submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State for India before it was passed by the Council of Bombay?
 LORD STANLEY : A great many topics have been touched upon in the course of this discussion, and I am afraid I shall not be able to do justice to them all; but the House will expect a few words from me before the discussion closes. Now, first, with regard to the Motion which the hon. Member has made. He asks me to lay upon the table various Papers. I do not quite know what are those Papers of the Russian Government to which he refers; but if I rightly interpret his Notice, I apprehend that he refers to certain despatches which were addressed by the Russian Government to their own officials, and confidentially communicated to the Foreign Office. Clearly these were not and could not be included in the published Papers, for this reason — they were not ours to give or withhold. If the Russian Government gave us permission to produce them we should be free to do so; but, unless they gave us that permission, it would be a breach of courtesy, and to a certain extent a breach of faith, if we were to make public that which has been placed before us in confidence; and I need not say that if we did that we should not receive many more communications of the kind. With regard to the other Papers which bear upon the general condition of the Christian races in Turkey, as affected by the events of the past few years, I thought it best to exclude them from the Cretan blue book, partly because they refer to a subject which, though no doubt connected to a considerable extent with this war, is yet separate and distinct; and I thought that in the case of a publication which is already sufficiently voluminous, I should be rather confusing those who read it than throwing additional light upon the matter, if I were, following merely the order of date, to insert a very considerable number of Papers bearing only indirectly upon that particular subject. And I was partly influenced in excluding those Papers by the feeling that if they had been mutilated and published in the shape of extracts only, they might have
 1262 1263 1264 1265 in loco parentis; 1266 locus standi 1267 1268
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he thought that some of the arguments brought forward were entirely out of place, "Why," it had been said, "is a person in Yorkshire to pay for the benefit of a person in Buckinghamshire?" It might just as well be said, "Why is a person in Wales or in Cornwall to pay towards the expenses incurred by this House in connection with the Paris Exhibition?" He could bear testimony to the usefulness of the Copyhold, Inclosure, and Tithe Commission. Exchanges of land had thereby been effected at a small expense, and this had indirectly benefited the whole community; for where land passed from an owner in whose possession it had been unproductive to one in whose hands it became productive the public good was promoted. The offence of the Land inclosure Commissioners was, he suspected, their having shown how that which had been attended with great expense might be effected with economy. He hoped, therefore, the operations of that Commission would not be discouraged, and with regard to charities the greater the abuses the more necessary it was that they should be subject to supervision.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney)—to whom he tendered his acknowledgments for the Motion he had made — would consent to omit the words relating to the Land Registry Office; because their only tendency, in his opinion, would be to perplex the case with respect to the other part of the Motion. He trusted that Her Majesty's Government, after that omission had been made, oppose the Resolution, because he believed that the arguments employed by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Sclater-Booth) were not such as to induce the House to vote against the Motion. There had not been the suddenness in the Motion of which the hon. Gentleman complained. The subject of the Copyhold, Inclosure, and Tithe Commission had been under consideration before, and two years ago a promise was given by the then Government, which for some reason or other was unredeemed, that the matter should be dealt with in the precise sense asked by the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney), Similar promises had been made with regard to the Charity Commission, so that suddenness could not be alleged against a Motion which would, even if sudden, have been equally entitled to weight. He hoped the House would pass the Resolution, because by so doing they would strengthen the hands of the Government in a matter in which they had great need to be strengthened. This was an admirable opportunity for them to deal with charities. He attempted to deal with charities three or four years ago, but the party now in Office, was then in Opposition, and the almost unanimous resistance of that party was offered to his proposal. That party being now in Office, circumstances were favourable; and he trusted that hon. Members would feel that this was an opportunity to procure what, if the Liberal party had been in Office it would have been much more difficult to obtain. Knowing well what the Treasury really required in cases of this kind, he entreated the
 1292 1293 1294
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he had never heard a speech—to use the mildest term—so full of inaccuracies as that made the other night by the hon. Member who had just spoken. They could not be sustained before a Select Committee.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would add nothing to what had been stated by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld), except with regard to what the Company asked for from Earl De Grey and Lord Halifax. All that they had asked of the Government was a slight relaxation of the contract, in order that they might raise unguaranteed capital to enable them to complete works that had proved to be of enormous difficulty. The Government had guaranteed £100,000,000 for the construction of railways in India, and could it grudge to guarantee £600,000 for the construction of works which would save the lives of millions of our fellow-subjects? The works were now progressing rapidly, and the result would be most beneficial to India.
 MAJOR ANSON  said, that, after the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for India, he would not press his Motion to a division; but as the Indian Council had already expressed an opinion on the subject, if their decision upon it should be again adverse, be must hold himself at liberty to bring the case before the House at a future period.
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the case of Sir Theophilus John Metcalfe, C.B., as set forth in his Petition of the 24th day of February, and printed in the Appendix to the Fifth Report on Public Petitions on the 7th day of March, 1868. The petitioner was joint magistrate at Delhi when the mutiny broke out. He had inherited a large property from his father, who had been in the service of
 1269 1270 1271
 MAJOR ANSON  said, in the absence of his noble Friend (Lord Elcho), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether there is any truth in the report that the Magistrates and Police Authorities of Lancashire had been unable in the Wigan district to protect workmen from assault, and that they have through violence and intimidation been forced to leave their employment; whether it is true that trains conveying these workmen have been attacked with stones and slag, to the bodily injury of the passengers; and, if these reports be true, whether he can explain the cause of the failure on the part of the Magistrates and Police Authorities of Lancashire to give that protection to workmen which every citizen has aright to expect in a free and well-ordered State?
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, when directing the Governor General of India to appoint a Commission of Inquiry into the circumstances attending the failure of the Bank of Bombay, "with full powers to conduct the inquiry," his attention was given to the 6th and 7th paragraphs of a Minute by his Excellency the Governor of Bombay, dated the 15th of August, 1867, in which he declared that—
 "No investigation by a Commission can be complete, unless that Commission has power to compel the attendance of witnesses, the production of papers, vouchers, and books, and to examine on oath;" "An Act of the (Bombay) Legislative Council might give these powers within the Presidency only; an Act of the Legislative Council of the Governor General would give the more extended power throughout India; but neither would enable the Commission to examine parties in England, where, perhaps, the most important evidence might have to be obtained, and without which the inquiry could not be said to be complete;"
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, that having been in India during the mutiny, it would be unfair in him not to testify to the general accuracy of the statements made with respect to the losses sustained by Sir John Metcalfe, and to his gallant conduct during the mutiny. He (Lord William Hay) visited Delhi as a traveller in 1848, and went over the house and estate of the petitioner's father, because it was regarded as one of the "lions" of the place, valuables of all kinds being collected there. He again visited the place in 1858, three months after the war, and it was the literal fact that not one stone of the mansion was Standing on another. He could bear testimony to the personal bravery of, and the invaluable services rendered by the petitioner during the mutiny, when he proved himself a worthy successor of his distinguished uncle Lord Metcalfe, who led a storming party at the siege of Bhurtpore. His services were publicly recognized by General Campbell, and, in a private conversation, that gallant officer had told him of the intrepid coolness with which Sir John Metcalfe at the siege of Delhi pioneered the troops through the intricate streets from the Cashmere Gate to the principal mosque, a distance of about two miles, marching in advance of the troops with a double-barrelled gun in his band as coolly and composedly as if he had been walking in his own grounds. So sensible were the army of the value of Sir John's services that they unanimously voted to him a share of the prize money derived from the capture of Delhi; but as he was a civilian, the generous wish of the army could not be carried into execution. Sir John Lawrence—to his honour be it said—was an austere man in respect to rewards and to questions of compensation; yet he had recommended that a payment of £5,000 should be made to Sir John Metcalfe, on the ground that his case was an exceptional one. That being the case, the House might depend upon it the claim was well worthy of consideration. It might be said that the appointment of a Committee in this case would establish a bad precedent; but he hoped there was not much danger of
 1274
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that the hon. Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid) in his remarks had wandered over a large portion of Europe, but the question before the House was the state of Crete, not the condition of the Jews in Servia and the Principalities. He was surprised at the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member, knowing his antecedents and the philanthropic views which he usually advocated in that House. On the Inst occasion when this subject was brought under consideration, he (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) thought that any discussion would be premature, because there was at that time every reason to hope that the war was
 1249 Arkadi in loco parentis, 1250 Revue des Deux Mondes, "What is the complaint? In 1840 there was a Turkey and a Turkish Government; in 1862 there remains nothing but England and an English Government. The East can no longer face decrepit, mouldering Turkey, but it has to encounter vigorous and powerful England. Greece, Egypt, Syria, the Lebanon, Servia, the Dnnubian provinces, no longer look to Constantinople, but to London. Turkey has found the secret of being even more formidable than she was in the 15th or 16th century, by being nothing of herself, and of being everything through England." 1251 "Wherever the Osmanli has placed his foot he has bred fear and distrust. His visit has been one of oppression and rapine. The scarlet cap and the well-known garb of the Turkish irregular are the signals for a general panic. The women hide in the innermost recesses to save themselves from insult; the men slink into their houses and offer a vain protest against the seizure of their property." "Abuses continue to swarm in every department. The prohibition of bribery and corruption is merely on piper; no public example has yet been made of any public functionary accused of these offences. Some charges have been submitted to an inquiry leading to no result. Though mixed tribunals have been established partially, the judicial procedure is still defective and the course of justice impure. The new codes of law which are said to be in progress have yet to come into practice. Commissions have been formed for the amendment of prisons, and a better organization of the post office and police, but no improvement of consequence has hitherto resulted practically from their labours. The fiscal department is quite as irregular and defective as ever." "Wherever the Turk is sufficiently predominant to be implicitly obeyed, laziness, corruption, extravagance and penury mark his rule; and wherever he is too feeble to exert more than a doubtful and nominal authority, the system of government which prevails is that of the Arab robber and the lawless Highland chieftain." 1252 "On the road at the village of Nero-kuru the murdered bodies of a Cretan Greek, his wife, and their son (a young child), and her brother have just been discovered, lying near to a Turkish farm. The woman was stripped naked, and the child's head severed from the body. The tezkereh, or pass, with which the party had been provided by the authorities to insure their free passage through this part of the country was found torn to pieces." "One gentleman describes the massacre of 200 persons, chiefly old men, women, and children; and the barbarities committed by the troops as beyond all belief. Another states that the Turks refused all quarter to the Christians, and mercilessly chopped off the heads of the unfortunate wounded, as well as dead; a reward of 100 lira having been offered for each head thus brought to the camp." 1253
 MR. ARTHUR PEEL , in seconding the Motion, said, he wished to state the peculiar circumstances under which the loss sustained by the petitioner was incurred, and also to quote some instances of the high testimony which distinguished officials in India had borne to the character and service of Sir John Metcalfe. The first he would mention was the testimony of the Secretary of the Government in India, who, after recognizing the eminent services of Sir John Metcalfe, stated that he believed Sir John had been the greatest sufferer of any in India in respect to the loss of property by the mutiny. The Governor General himself had recommended compensation, but for some cause or other it had not hitherto been granted. It might be urged that it was a large claim to make on the part of a civil servant of the Crown, but the case was a peculiar one. For three generations the family had occupied that property. It was the policy of the Indian Government to disassociate their servants as much as possible from connection with the mother country, as it was considered that they would be better servants if they confined themselves entirely to Indian interests. The father of the present baronet, Sir Thomas Metcalfe, made his home in Delhi, and collected around him all that a refined taste and great intelligence would lead a gentleman in his position to gather together. He built an elegant mansion, and furnished it luxuriously with valuable pictures and statues. The house was sacked by the rebels, and subsequently our troops made use of the very property on which the house was situated, in order to enable them effectually to combat the rebels, cutting down the valuable woods, and availing themselves of all the advantages which the place possessed to conduct their operations; so that while, on the one hand, the house was despoiled by the enemy, on
 1272
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was of opinion that debates of this kind caused considerable mischief, by encouraging hopes which could not be fulfilled, and leading to results not desired by any Members of the House, but the present discussion might have a good effect if it elicited from the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) a declaration that the British Government were not prepared to join in the policy pursued by some European Powers in Turkey, and would take no part in the intrigues which were carried on in that country, and which had led to the unfortunate state of things in Crete. The noble Lord deserved great credit for his refusal to share in a policy dangerous to the peace of Europe and prejudicial to the interests of the Christians themselves, and he (Mr. Layard) had reason to believe that some of the Powers had already begun to regret the course they had pursued and to admit that the noble Lord's policy had been more just and statesmanlike. It would be idle to conceal that the Cretan insurrection was part of a system which for some years had been carried on in the East. There was one very powerful State whose policy it was to weaken the Turkish Empire, to render all reforms impossible, and to embitter the relations between the different races, so that the fall of the Empire might sooner or later occur. That Power was well known to be Russia, and Aali Pasha, in the able report on the insurrection in Crete which he had recently addressed to the Sultan, after mentioning the intrigues of Greece and two other causes to which it had been attributed, concluded by saying that there was a fourth, which, more than all others, influenced such things in the East, and which His Majesty would at once recognize by the simple allusion to it. There was no doubt that he referred to the policy of Russia, which was founded on the hypocritical pretence of resistance to oppression and corruption, the vindication of political and religious liberty, the support of nationalities,
 1254 1255 1256 The Times. History of Venice Travels in Crete, 1257 "During the voyage from Crete the (French) Admiral questioned through his interpreters the Cretans whom he had on board, and who were mostly women, as to whether they had ever witnessed any cruelty committed by the Turks. They all answered that they had not seen any act of cruelty committed; but that people had very often told them that such things had taken place, and that they believed in the truth of such statements. The reports from Russian sources are of so incredible a nature that I have never thought myself justified in reporting them to your Lordship." 1258 sauvetage 1259 1260 1261
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in the spirit of his hon. Friend's (Mr. Goldney's) Resolution he willingly concurred; but the terms were too broad and comprehensive, and be felt some difficulty in assenting to the Motion exactly as it stood upon the Paper. In this Resolution they found drawn into one category "the expenses of the Copyhold, Enclosure, and Tithe Commission, Inclosure and Drainage Acts, Charity Commission, and Land Registry Office." These could hardly be considered as all coming under the same principle. The right hon. Gentleman had recommended that the Land Registry Office should be omitted from the Resolution. If the Land Registry Office were to be continued exactly in the same condition as at present—that was, that no other business should be introduced into the office than had been the case of late years—then he doubted whether it would be proper to exclude those words from the Resolution; but he understood it was in contemplation either to annex some other duties to the head of that office, or to amalgamate it with the Middlesex Registry Office. Under these circumstances it might be expedient to exclude the Land Registry Office from the Resolution. With respect to the Charity Commission, for his own part, he perfectly concurred in the view that the expense of the administration of charities should be borne by the income of charities, and be did not himself dissent from the view put forward by the right
 1295
 MR. MONK : Mr. Speaker—Sir, it will doubtless be in the recollection of the House that early in last year the hon. Member for Galway brought forward a Motion in reference to the disturbed state of Servia and of Crete, and in a very able and temperate speech called the attention of the House and of the Government to the unhappy condition of the Christian subjects of the Porte in the Island of Candia. I am deeply sensible of the disadvantages under which I lie in approaching a subject which has been so ably treated by my hon. Friend, and which has risen considerably in importance during the past twelvemonth. I can only throw myself upon the indulgence of the House, feeling sure that that indulgence will not be asked for in vain.
 1226 "The true state of matters scorned to be that the insurrection had dwindled down to very small
 1227 "I did not conceal from Aali Pasha that I was far from being as sanguine as he was with regard to the success of the Porte in restoring tranquillity in Crete and satisfying the Christian inhabitants by the measures he contemplated."—[ Blue Book, The Times "The pacification of Crete is not likely to be the work either of Turkey or of Greece. It must be brought about by the political influence of the Great Powers, and by the public opinion of Europe."—[ Times, "Skirmishes frequently occur between the Mussulman Greeks of the island and the insurgent Christians, but the Ottoman troops have generally remained inactive during the winter, and almost all the volunteers from Greece have returned, on account of the difficulty of procuring subsistence where war is carried on without depôts or discipline. There appears to be no immediate prospect of a termination of hostilities."—[ Times, "The affairs of Crete continue in the same position. Blockade running is kept up, and the emigration of Christian families continues. The proportion of men who emigrate is now considerable, judging from the numbers that are seen at Athens."—[ Times, 1228 Arcadi Enosis Crete, Pall Mall Gazette "The subjection of Crete appears to be as remote now as when the Grand Vizier went on his mission. Omer Pasha openly expresses his opinion that it is perfectly hopeless to expect any success against the insurgents as long as the blockade is carried on in its present manner. It is certainly astonishing that a force of upwards of thirty vessels of all classes cannot in some way intercept the single blockade-runner, which keeps up communication with the island with the regularity of a Mail Service." "He had now come to the conclusion that it would be far better for the Porte to give up Candia than to seek to conciliate the Christian population by giving some form of local autonomy to the island. He believed that the country was lost to Turkey, and that it would be better for the Sultan to accept this conclusion than to grant concessions which would not permanently reconcile the population to Turkish rule, while they would form a precedent on which every part of the Turkish Empire might found a claim to quasi independence. Crete, his Excellency said, had become a permanently sore limb of the Empire, and it was better to amputate it than to allow it to form the nucleus of gangrene, which might spread to every part of the Empire…… He felt convinced that the course he had suggested was the wisest which the Sultan could adopt. He added that, if he were himself in the Sultan's position, he would not hesitate also to abandon Thessaly."—[ Blue Book, 1229 "Nor could I conceal from him my opinion that the Porte, having, as it believed, put down by force of arms the insurrection directed against its authority, would at once, and decidedly, refuse to sacrifice a province which it had re-conquered at the cost of so much blood and treasure."—[ Blue Book, "The Candian insurrection no longer exists. Those who are at this moment maintaining the disorder in the island, and are preventing a portion of the inhabitants from peaceably devoting themselves to their labours, consist of bands of foreign and native brigands, which it is necessary to destroy, whilst effectually protecting, by God's help and under the auspices of our august Sovereign, the citizens who have submitted against their destructive incursions." — [ Blue Book, "Quos Deus vult perdere, prius dementat." 1230 "Let Candia remain in the hands of the Turks, and what probability was there that the Greeks in that island would remain patient under that yoke which their brethren had shaken off?"—[2  Hansard, 1231 "The status of the Christians in the Empire is still very far from what it ought to be," and that the "administration of justice is not only faulty, but oppressive to Mussulmans and Christians alike." "With reference to the subject under consideration—namely, how the stipulations agreed upon by the British Government and that of Turkey in regard to the treatment of the Christian subjects of the Sultan have been observed in Crete—it behoves me, in replying to this question, to recur to the state of the island anterior to the insurrection, which has since placed the whole land under exceptional circumstances as to its administration. I can, moreover, only offer such remarks on this head as my short experience of the island itself enables me to make. "The very fact of Delegates having in the course of last spring been elected by the whole Christian population of the island, for the purpose of peaceably deliberating in general assembly upon the legal course for obtaining redress to certain grievances preferred against the Government (a practice somewhat similar to that adopted in ancient
 1232 "I may briefly state that I ventured on several occasions to suggest to the authorities the expediency of the Hatti-Houmayoum of 1856 being fully carried into effect not only in Crete, but, as I took the liberty of observing, throughout all the Christian provinces of the Empire." Journal de St. Petersburg. 1233 Wizard, "The reign of terror which has long threatened, has become a fearful reality. Parties of Bashi-Bazouks, who have given up service with Omer Pasha (not finding it sufficiently remunerative), scour the country, and put to death any man, woman, or child they find." "Was obliged to confess that the Government
 1234 Blue Book, "In the towns of Candia, Retimo, and also in this town (Canea), there are organized fanatical bands who call themselves 'Zoreda' (weazels), who leave the towns at night and murder any Christians they can lay their hands on."—[ Blue Book, "The brutalities lately committed on Christian women and children defy description." "The inability and apparent reluctance of the authorities to do justice, and thus prevent similar outrages being repeated."—[ Blue Book, 1235 "Doubtless it would be competent to us, and it would be our duty, to advise the discontinuance of bloodshed, if it were clearly proved that the re-conquest of the island was impossible; but Her Majesty's Government had no information which could justify them in pronouncing that the cause of the Porte in Crete was hopeless, and unless they were convinced that it was so they must let matters take their course."—[ Blue Book, 1236 "In case the Turkish authority should be exercised in a manner offensive to humanity"—in Candia or in Samos—"each of the allied Powers, without however entering into a special or formal engagement to that effect, would deem it its duty to interpose its influence with the Porte, in order to assure to the inhabitants of the above-mentioned islands protection against arbitrary and oppressive Acts."—[ Annual Register,
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would not admit that there had been any error in the concession of the fortress of Belgrade to the Government of Roumania, for it was quite useless to the Turkish Government, and was a source of great expense to them. He congratulated the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard) upon his new-found moderation in treating the subject that evening. The hon. Member having on previous occasions been a strong partizan of the Palmerstonian doctrine of maintaining the integrity of the Porte—in the full acceptation of the phrase. No doubt hon. Gentlemen on the Liberal Benches believed they saw responsibilities looming before them, and wished to separate themselves from opinions that might no longer be convenient or advantageous.
 COLONEL FRENCH  thought his hon. Friend the Member for King's County (Sir Patrick O'Brien) had made out a good case for the appointment of the proposed Committee of Inquiry. He (Colonel French) thought the Post Office Department ought to have given his hon. Friend the explanation which the Secretary to the Treasury had just given to the House.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he hoped the suggestion for the insertion of the word "entirely" would not be agreed to, as that insertion would invite the inference that the charge should be borne partly by the public, and thus the value of the Motion would be destroyed.
 MR. SCLATER - BOOTH  said, he thought the House would hardly he inclined, upon so short a notice, to subvert arrangements laid down by several Acts
 1288 plus 1289 d. 1290 d. 1291
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the Duke of Montrose had made inquiries into the case, and had satisfied himself that it was his duty to dismiss Mr. Duffy from his situation. The offences charged against Mr. Duffy arose from irregularity and a want of punctuality. He did not think the character of Mr. Boucher was before this House, and therefore he would not enter on that subject. Mr. Duffy was nine times cautioned for those offences in 1866, and eleven times between February and July in 1867. There was nothing against the moral character or the ability of Mr. Duffy; but repeated errors and mistakes arising from irregular habits and unpunctuality were very serious matters in an establishment like the Post Office. Mr. Duffy had sent letters by the wrong mails, and had made mistakes with respect to Post Office orders and registered letters. It was found at last impossible to submit to these things, and Mr. Duffy had to be dismissed.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the Government had no intention of inviting competition for the conveyance of the West Indian Mails at the expiration of the present Contract. The West India Mail Steam Packet Company had represented to the Government that it would be impossible for them to make the outlay which was necessary for the adequate performance of the service after the disastrous results of the hurricanes which occurred in the West Indies last year, unless their term were extended beyond the two years during which the Contract was to run. This request was regarded as a reasonable one and was acceded to. The terms upon which the Contract would be recommended were still under consideration, but one condition would be that the Packet Station should be removed from St. Thomas to some other place in the West Indies.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he begged to second the Motion. He thanked the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney) for having again brought the question before the House. He entirely agreed with his hon. Friend that the only way in which they could arrive at a satisfactory solution of these questions, in the absence of any action by the Government, was by an hon. Member who had a perfect knowledge of the subject, stating to the House where the weak points lay. In this matter he was bound to say he had some fault to find with Her Majesty's Government. When, two years ago, the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney) brought the subject forward, he (Mr. Childers) being then Secretary to the Treasury, and entirely agreeing with the hon. Gentleman in principle, undertook that the matter should be looked into. Last year his hon. Friend again brought the question forward, and he (Mr. Childers) asked whether
 1285
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped that after the statement of the Secretary to the Treasury the hon. Member for King's County would withdraw his Motion. There was no occasion on which the Government more required to be supported than in dealing with such cases as the present. It was easy enough to get rid of officers who had been guilty of some actual offence; but very difficult to clear the Civil Service of persons who arc, like this gentleman, complained of twenty times in two years, and really not worth their salaries.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he rose to call attention to the circumstances under which the sum of £600,000 was agreed to be advanced on loan, in May, 1866, to the Madras Irrigation Company, by the then Secretary of State for India (Earl De Grey), and to make an explanatory statement. He would have been in his place on the evening when the hon. Member
 1299 1300 1301
 MR. STANSFELD  said, that the money had been advanced by the Company.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that the hon. Member was out of order in referring to a speech in a previous debate.
 MR. MARSH  said, he would confine his observations to the question of charities. All that was asked was that the Treasury should re-coup itself for the expenses of managing them. They were sometimes founded by persons who were in advance of the civilization of the age in which they lived, but many of them had now become entirely useless. It was a mistake to allow persons to tie up property in perpetuity for charitable, or indeed for any purposes. There were three descriptions of charities — namely, hospitals, almshouses, and grammar schools. The first was an unmixed good. They required little looking after, and were managed by local boards; but almshouses were monkish institutions unsuited to the present age. They were really useless and tended very much to produce pauperism by encouraging unthrifty habits. They generally contained half-a-dozen old men and as many old women, who would be much happier if they could live with their friends. Even the Greenwich sailors preferred to receive a small sum of money a day and to be allowed to live with their friends rather than dwell in a palace on the banks of the Thames. With regard to grammar schools, they might in a few cases be useful, by enabling boys of a humbler class to obtain an education which raised them to a higher position; but he thought that where the qualities which qualified a boy for a more important sphere existed, they would assert themselves without this adventitious assistance. In other cases these schools had had a mischievous effect, giving boys an education of a kind which they did not want, and increasing that class who were constantly writing to Members of Parliament for situations as clerks, and who, in the colonies, were the most useless and helpless portion of the population. There were about 3,000 of these schools, and the recent Report of the Royal Commissioners had shown the maladministration which existed. He had seen an account of a recent discussion in a town council as to why there were no boys at the town grammar school, some one remarked that they had only to send for a photograph of the master to know the reason. In King
 1287
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he rose to call attention to the circumstances connected with the removal of Anthony J. Duffy from his appointment of permanent clerk in the Circulation Department of the General Post Office; and to move for a Committee of Inquiry. The hon. Baronet said that the father of the gentleman whose name appeared on the Notice was induced to give his son such an education as would fit him for the Civil Service. In the year 1865 Mr. Duffy having received, through the intervention of a noble Lord, a nomination to a clerkship in the Post Office, was appointed to the Savings Hank branch of that Department. Having served some three months in the Savings Bank branch, he received a nomination to compete with eleven other gentlemen, and in that competition he obtained the second place. After the competitive examination he entered upon his duties in the Foreign Office branch of the General Post Office. Both in the Savings Bank and Foreign Office branches Mr. Duffy's conduct was such as to merit the encomiums of all his superiors in the branches—so much so that they felt it but right that he should be appointed a probationary clerk in the Register branch of the General Post Office. He was then appointed a permanent clerk in that branch. The gentleman who had the control of this Department (Mr. Boucher) seemed to have entertained an unaccountable prejudice against Mr. Duffy, and when it became necessary to revise the Department Mr. Duffy's name was omitted from those who were to be employed in it. On inquiry as to the reason of this, he (Sir Patrick O'Brien) received the reply that Mr. Duffy was not suited to this particular office. He then wrote to Mr. Scudamore
 1297
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, that the Resolution which he had moved on Monday last was not precisely the same in terms as the one which he had placed upon the Notice Paper some time previously, inasmuch as it implied the adoption of a certain course of policy by Lord Halifax instead of by Earl Do Grey, and that was perhaps the reason why the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) had not on that occasion come down to the House to answer him. The House had, however, now heard the explanation of the hon. Member, and so far as it went it was satisfactory. He (Mr. Smollett) would take a future opportunity of moving that the proposals first made to the Irrigation Company by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs) should be laid upon the table of the House. His (Mr. Smollett's) statement was that in 1859 a deputation of adventurers proposed to the Secretary of State for India to relieve the Government of India from making large irrigation works out of the Government Treasury, and solicited permission to make the works by means of a company which should simply reap the profits of the undertaking. Nine years elapsed, and it appeared that not a shilling had been advanced  bonâ fide
 MR. SMOLLETT : Yes; advanced by the Company on a guarantee that the Government would pay 5 per cent interest. This was, in reality, a Government loan. He contended that at the end of 1871 the Government will have made themselves answerable for £2,000,000 sterling and upwards, while these private adventurers would not have made themselves answerable for a single shilling. No profits had up to this
 1302
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  had known Mr. Boucher in his capacity of public servant and also in private life, and he felt sure that on consideration the hon. Baronet would not make such an attack on his character. [Sir PATRICK O'BRIEH: I did not attack his character.] The hon. Baronet stated that, from prejudice and other causes, Mr. Scudamore swayed the mind of the Duke of Montrose to dismiss this young man. Mr. Voucher might make a mistake, but he would not act from such a motive.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to invite competition for the conveyance of the West Indian Mails on the expiration of the present Contract?
 MR. BARROW  said, this question was not now mooted for the first time, as be had a few years ago pressed it on the attention of the then Government; but because he was a humble Member of that House be had not been successful. He saw no reason why the parties who had inclosed lands under the Inclosure Commissioners Acts should not be called upon to pay the expense. These exchanges of land were not generally for the public benefit. It did not matter to the public whether two fields were close together or not; but it was a great benefit to individuals, and those individuals ought to pay for what was done. The greater portion of the land had been inclosed, and he did not think the public should have to pay for the benefit of individuals.
 MR. GREGORY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID : Sir, although the Papers to which attention has been called appear to me to suggest considerations very different from those which have occurred to my hon. Friend the Member for Gloucester (Mr. Monk), yet I should not on that account alone have asked permission to address the House. My principal reason for desiring to do so is, that at this moment—when hon. Members are
 1237 1238 "But when it was seen that the roads could not be made without labour or pecuniary sacrifice, they turned round and opposed them, and there was no abuse too violent or fiction too absurd which they did not lavish on everybody connected with them. Under the Hatti-Houmayoum Turks were permitted to turn Christians, and — what did not please the Cretan Christians quite so much—Christians were allowed to turn Turks. These people, who are always talking of Turkish fanaticism, now sought to trample on it with a fiercer fanaticism of their own. Not content with fair proselytism, they resorted to the most scandalous means of making converts." "But indignant at these excesses he now decided that the funds should be distributed among the schools and hospitals of all Christian sects indiscriminately. The Greeks were much incensed at this." 1239 égorgement, 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244 1245 1246 1247 "In short, very little progress has been made towards enabling tae Christians to feel that the Ottoman Government is, as regards them, a national Government. They submit to it as a less
 1248
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he did not regret that he had not secured an earlier opportunity of bringing on his Motion, because the proceedings of Thursday night showed how necessary it was to consider in what way the increasing expenditure of the country could be grappled with. Hon. Members knew very well how exceedingly difficult it was in Committee of Supply to effect any reduction of expenditure. Attempts to do so usually ended in a promise that the matter should be looked
 1281 1282 1283 1284
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he was entirely in the hands of the House. He was ready to strike out the words as to the Land Registry Office, but if the House thought that the principle of the Motion should be affirmed he should press it to a division.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  had heard with great satisfaction the decision at which the right hon. Baronet had arrived to take the case into his favourable consideration. He contended that, as the Council of India were a purely official body and not elected by the taxpayers of India to represent them, it was perfectly open to the House of Commons to review their action on financial questions, and maintained that, although the rules to which reference had been made might, generally speaking, operate fairly, yet that was no good reason why a particular instance in which they might operate harshly should not be dealt with on its own merits. The case was one entitled to consideration upon its own merits, and on grounds of abstract justice; and as it was, moreover, the claim of a man who had rendered important public services, and whose family also deserved the gratitude of the country, it was to be hoped that it would be dealt with in a favourable, an equitable, and even in a generous spirit.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON , said, in reply, that he feared that it was true that the occurrences alluded to in the Question of the hon. and gallant Member had taken place, and that many workmen had been deterred by violence and intimidation from pursuing their employment. No special information had been received as to the acts of violence referred to, but it was not unlikely that the particular instance had occurred. He was unable to give satisfactory explanation of the reasons why better protection had not been afforded to those workmen and labourers; because it was only yesterday morning that it was learnt
 1225
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that his attention had, of course, been directed to the observations which had been made upon this subject by the Governor of Bombay, and he was also perfectly aware that the duties of a Commission of Inquiry could not be properly carried out without legislative powers. He very much doubted, however, whether it would be necessary to give compulsory powers with reference to the examination of witnesses in this country. He had recently received a telegram from the Viceroy of India, who stated that he proposed to introduce a Bill in the Legislative Council with a view to giving to the Commission more extended power throughout India. The Viceroy also requested that he (Sir Stafford Northcote) would nominate one member to serve on the Commission, and he had accordingly nominated Sir Charles Jackson. He had further telegraphed to India and requested to be furnished with the names of the members of the Commission, but he had not yet received an answer. Considering that the Commissioners would find all records and books in India, and that nearly all the witnesses were in that
 1224
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that it had not been submitted to the Secretary of State before it passed the Council of Bombay; but after it had been passed by the Council and had received the sanction of the Governor General it was sent home. It then appeared to have been reviewed by the Secretary of State, who wrote to India to say that he saw no reason for disallowing the sanction which the Act had received at the hands of the Viceroy.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it was painful to say anything apparently in opposition to the claim of a gentleman of high character who had rendered distinguished services, and who certainly had been a very great sufferer. It was, therefore, with very great reluctance that he found himself compelled to object to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member, he found himself in a somewhat embarassing position. This claim arose out of events which had occurred ten years ago. The compensation which had been awarded to Sir John Metcalfe had been awarded in consequence of a despatch written by Sir Charles Wood in 1859, which allowed a certain scale of compensation to sufferers by the mutiny. The case of Sir John Metcalfe had afterwards been brought forward as a peculiar one; it had been considered by the Government of India, and recommended to the notice of the Secretary of State for India in 1864. From that time to the present it had not been officially brought before any Indian authority, and this Motion had come upon him (Sir Stafford Northcote) quite unexpectedly. The hon. and gallant Member had certainly given notice of his Motion some time ago; but never having heard of Sir John Metcalfe, and not knowing that it was in any way connected with his Department, he (Sir Stafford Northcote) had not given his attention to the matter till the day before yesterday, when Sir John Metcalfe called upon him, and expressed a hope that he would not object to the Motion. He then asked what the circumstances were, and for the first time he heard the history of the case. The House were aware that if he were ever so well inclined to make a grant it would not be in his power to do so without the assent of the majority of his Council. He had not had an opportunity of consulting them yet; and as it was only on that morning he looked into the Papers, be was speaking under
 1275 1276 1277 maximum 1278 1279 1280
 MR. WHITE  said, he would Leg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Why the List of Officers receiving Half-pay with Civil Appointments is not presented to Parliament, as it should be, in pursuance of the Statute 29 & 30  Vict.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I rise for the purpose of seconding the Address which has just been moved by the right hon. Gentleman. I heartily concur—every man must concur, in the sentiment of sorrow and in the sentiment of indignation which are expressed in the terms of that Address. And we must all, I think, feel a sincere thankfulness to the Almighty who has been pleased on this critical occasion—if not entirely to paralyze the arm of the assassin, yet to prevent, at all events, as we trust, the fatal consequences at which the assassin aimed. Now, Sir, I do not know whether, judging as I judge, merely from expressions contained in the telegraphic intelligence, it would be wise or safe for me to assume as positively demonstrated that this foul and loathsome deed is connected with Fenianism. If it be so, I am sorry to say it only adds another dark shadow to the disgrace which previous acts of horror have brought on the name of that conspiracy. But whether that be so, or whether it be not, it cannot in the main affect the sentiment with which I am sure this Address will be voted by the House. Every man who has the smallest share of human feeling must be profoundly moved, on the one hand, at this new cause of anxiety to Her Majesty, and, on the other, at the fact that Her Majesty has been spared another deep and severe affliction in the midst of that crushing affliction which has darkened her days. And as regards the Prince himself, undoubtedly if anything could have disarmed the hand of the criminal one would have thought it would have been his youth, his great intelligence, and the kindly and genial manners which have endeared him to all with whom he has been brought in contact. This is a subject in which few words, I think, are best, the object being simply to convey to the foot of the Throne the dutiful and loyal assurance of sentiment which we entertain in common. I will only say, therefore, that I most cordially second the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 COLONEL SYKES : Is it true that King Theodore was found dead; and, if so, in what manner did he meet with his death?
 CAPTAIN GROSVENOR : — Sir, the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Londonderry (Sir Frederick Heygate) as it appears to me is precisely tantamount to a direct negative. He wishes the House to affirm that, as long as the Union exists, the Established Church in Ireland should exist also; but on this side of the House we wish the Union to exist for ever and the Established Church to disappear at once. The hon. Member for Cambridge, though he wandered over a great deal of ground through which it is unnecessary that I should follow him, did not fail in accordance with the never-failing tactics of his party to refer the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman for the disestablishment of the Irish Church and the support which it receives on this side of the House to causes with which it is going out of the way to suppose that they have any connection, and this is the more singular because the course is not far to seek from which they naturally and inevitably flow. Is it possible that hon. Gentle-
 1351 1352 1353 1354
 MR. GILPIN  said, he thought
 "The force of fancy could no farther go" 1366 "What have all the enactments of the statute book done for the cause of Protestantism in Ireland? And how comes it to pass that when single-handed Truth walked the land with the might and prowess of a conquerer, no sooner was she propped up by the authority of the State, no sooner was the armour of intolerance given to her, than her brilliant career of victory was for ever ended? When she took up the carnal and laid down the spiritual weapon her strength went out of her, she was struck with impotency. In giving up the warfare of principle for the warfare of politics she lost her power. Reason, Scripture, prayer, ought to comprise the whole armoury of religion, and by these alone the battles of our faith are to be successfully fought.…. I want truth and force to be dissevered from each other; the moral and spiritual not to be implicated with the grossly physical means. Never will our cause prosper, never will it prevail in Ireland, until it is delivered from the outrage and contamination of so unholy an alliance. It is not because I hold Popery to be innocent that I want the removal of these disabilities; but because I hold that, if these were taken out of the way, she would be ten-fold more assailable. It is not because I am indifferent to the good of Protestantism that I want to displace these artificial crutches from under her; but because I want that, freed from every symptom of decrepitude and decay, she should stand forth in her own native strength, and make manifest to all men how firm a support she has on the goodness of her cause, and on the basis of her orderly and well-laid arguments." 1367
 ADMIRAL SEYMOUR  said, that a considerable portion of his constituents being Protestants, he wished to enter his protest against the spoliation of the Irish Church. He had heard no reason assigned that would justify the abstraction from the Irish Church of property to which it was legally entitled, and which it might be said it held as trustee for the religious instruction of the poor. Great stress has been laid on the Roman Catholics of Ireland being the majority of the population; but this House does not legislate for one part of the Kingdom only but for the whole, and in this view of the case the Roman Catholics are a minority of the whole population of the United Kingdom. It has been attempted to connect the Fenian conspiracy with this Church question; but the deeds of these misguided men have not apparently been guided by religious motives. But if the assumption were true, I would ask, is it the time to parley or conciliate when a man holds a pistol to one's head? No, Sir, the better plan is to knock him down if you can; and if that is managed, conciliation is a much easier task. The hon. Member for Birmingham said that if the Protestants of Ireland were disendowed, they would be no worse off than the other sects in the country; but that was an argument which would be equally forcible in support of a measure proposing the confiscation of any private person's property. It might be said in such a case—"As long as he is not made poorer than his neighbour, we shall be doing only justice in taking his money." He fully concurred in the opinion of the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) when he said that if this measure were adopted it would not conciliate a single enemy, and would alienate the affections of the msot consistent supporters of the Union.
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, he had listened with much pleasure to the interesting speech of the learned Serjeant who had just sat down. [ Laughter. 1375 brutum fulmen. 1376 in limine
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he thought that the House would agree with the hon. Member for King's County (Sir Patrick O'Brien) that the settlement of the Irish Church question would not settle the land question or any other question; but he believed that the majority of the House would be of opinion that a satisfactory settlement of the Church question would remove a very great grievance, and go a long way to convince the people of Ireland that there was a growing anxiety in that House to deal fairly with questions of vital interest to their country. Under ordinary circumstances a Motion far the disestablishment of the Irish Church would have attracted no more attention than was bestowed on any of the frequently recurrent topics of the day. The subject to which the Resolution of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) referred was familiar to the minds of hon. Members and to the country, and the object which the Resolution sought to attain was
 1384 s. 1385 1386 1387 1388
 GENERAL PEEL : Sir, I start now from the point to which we were conducted by the celebrated division on the morning of the 4th of April. I do not think it worth while to speculate on the many causes which tended to swell the majority on that occasion; but I firmly believe that if "all hearts were open, all desires known"—if there were no secrets as to the motives which served to produce that majority, it would be found that the Protestant Church in Ireland had very little indeed to do with it. It was a great party move, and as a means of uniting—at all events for the moment—the fragments into which the party opposite were broken, and of showing the strength of the great Liberal party, I am perfectly willing to admit that it was a great success, and that the concoctors of it deserved great praise in a party point of view. A noble Letter-writer—there are really so many political letter-writers now that it is necessary to particularize them—a noble Letter-writer has remarked upon my having failed on a former occasion to recognize the justice of the comparison which he drew between the Liberal party opposite and the pioneers and engineers of an army. Now, I am bound to acknowledge, after carefully considering these Resolutions, the motives which have dictated them, and the objects for which they are brought forward, that I recognize in them a similarity to one duty which is performed by the pioneers of an army, and that is, that they do all the dirty work. I think this military comparison might be extended much further. I think the political movements of the present day very much represent the manœuvres of skil-
 1389 1390 "A third course would be to "secularize" the Church funds — that is, to adopt the voluntary principle in regard to the Church in Ireland—to establish no new Church, and to abolish the Establishment which at present exists, giving to education or to any other object of public utility the revenues which are now absorbed by the Established Church in Ireland. Of course, this proposal contemplates securing a life interest to the present holders of benefices in the Church. This is a plan which I have often thought might be realized."—[3  Hansard, "But it has very great defects in it. In the first place, you immediately destroy, as far as Ireland is concerned, the principle of Establishment. Such an example would hardly be lost on the Dissenters of this country. Although the cases might be very dissimilar, those who strove for the destruction of the Church Establishment in Ireland in favour of the voluntary principle would avail themselves of the precedent to overthrow the Established Church here. I therefore think it would be unwise in us to assent to a Bill embodying that view, even if it came from the House of Commons."—[ Ibid. 1391 1392 Hansard 1393
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am sorry we are not in a position to close the debate on this Resolution to-night; because the subject, though undoubtedly one of very great importance, has been discussed in two debates, lasting four nights each, which we have gone through in the present Session. As far as hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House are concerned, I am extremely anxious that this question, important as it is, should not be in conflict more than can be avoided with the general progress of business. If, however, it be the decided wish of Gentlemen on the other side of the House to continue the debate to-morrow, I hope we shall at least arrive at an understanding that it shall not be prolonged beyond then.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, he was one of the humble Members coming under the letter "Z" who had failed to catch the eye of the Chairman. As the representative of an important constituency he thought that their views on this important and solemn subject should be allowed to find expression. He agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer). If he had the good luck to address the House as often as the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) he should not complain.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The hon. Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) a little misapprehends the nature of these understandings which appear so formidable. He treats them as conspiracies against the liberty of private Members. They cannot very well be that, when they are made in public, and they simply amount to this: they are appeals to the general sentiment of Members of the House, upon the general expediency and convenience of the case, to judge when they think a question has been sufficiently discussed. It is a mistake to suppose that any understandings of this kind can interfere with the liberty of hon. Members. But I think it would be idle to spend this evening in discussing whether we will close the debate to-morrow night. If the right hon. Gentleman says he can enter into no engagement, I must point out that a sentiment has prevailed on this side of the House that there has been a singular languor, though not in the latter part, yet in a large portion of the debate this evening; and we on this side of the House most reserve our own liberty to judge and act for the best to-morrow night. And especially if we observe a like languor to-morrow, it is possible that we may come to the conclusion that it will be for the general convenience that the debate should be closed. But that cannot be carried even by a slight preponderance of opinion; it must be by a general reference to the sense and convenience of the House.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that no Member for Scotland had yet spoken on the subject. Having spent part of the Easter holidays among his friends in that country,
 1424
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had appeared in the character of the historiographer of the Liberal party during the last thirty years; but if his statements had been as accurate as no doubt they were interesting, he should still have been at a loss to discover their relevancy to the present question. What the conduct of Lord Althorp in 1833 had to do with the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman in 1868 he failed to discover; but his statements were as inaccurate as they were irrelevant. The right hon. Gentleman told them that the Liberal party after the passing of the first Reform Bill made every effort to settle the Irish Church question; but were unable to do so owing
 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413 "Si tibi Mustullon coquus, Æmiliane, vocatur, Dicatur quare non Taratalla mihi." 1414 1415 1416 1417 "He left what little wealth he had, To found a house for fools and mad; To show by one satiric touch No nation needed it so much." 1418
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman could not, of course, engage to bring the discussion to a close to-morrow night; but he wished to impress on the right hon. Gentleman the necessity of exercising all his influence in order to bring the debate to a termination as early as possible. There were many other important questions for consideration, and he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that, as far as the principles of these Resolutions were concerned, they had, in fact, been debated for a great many nights. All sections of the House had stated their views on the subject, and the House had by an overwhelming majority pronounced their opinions upon it. ["No!"] Was it likely that that side of the House, having expressed its opinion by so large a majority, would recede from the position it had taken up? And if it would not, what would be the effect of the Government opposing these Resolutions night after night? They would be persisting in a hopeless resistance to the determination which must ultimately be arrived at, and the delay would be most disastrous to the conduct of the business of the House. It was impossible not to foresee that the position of unofficial Members of the House would be one of the greatest embarrassment. After the lapse of some time all the public questions which had hitherto been kept in abeyance would be hurried on with, and the House would have no opportunity of properly discussing them. In conclusion, he urged the right hon. Gentleman to lend all his influence for the purpose of bringing the debate to a close as soon as possible.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought his right hon. Friend's Motion had really disposed of the question; because it was not the ordinary Motion that the House should resolve itself into Committee on a distant day to consider Resolutions, but a Motion that the House should forthwith go
 1421
 MR. LAYARD : Perhaps I may be allowed to ask a Question of some importance of the Secretary of State for India. I do not ask whether the official Report which has appeared in the papers with regard to the attack upon Magdala and the release of the captives is true — there can be no doubt of that — but whether there is any other information which he can communicate to the House. I trust the House will permit me to offer my congratulations to the right hon. Gentleman on the triumphant success of the expedition, and to express the admiration which I am certain this House feels for the skill, the forethought, and the prudence displayed by Sir Robert Napier, and for the gallantry and devotion of the troops under his command?
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise, Sir, at the desire of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for India to offer a few observations to the House upon this subject. This certainly is a topic which we can approach with unmixed satisfaction. Her Majesty's Government took the most extensive means that they could yesterday to ensure that the news of the success of Her Majesty's arms should be known as widely as possible; but it is the unanimous wish of my Colleagues, and it will, I am sure, be more respectful to the House—though I have no further news to communicate—that I should in a formal manner confirm the authenticity of the statement which has been made. It will be my duty shortly to propose a Motion by command of Her Majesty, in connection with this subject, which will give to hon. Gentlemen every opportunity of expressing their opinions; and on the present occasion, as there is no Motion before the House, I shall make very few additional observations. But in communicating to the House the authenticity of this information I feel
 1338 "All the troops are well, and evince a most admirable spirit, emulating each other in cheerful devotion to the interests of the expedition. Officers and men alike deserve every praise."
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, in rising to make a Motion before the Orders of the day, I doubt not the House has anticipated its purpose. It is to move an Address to Her Majesty, expressing on the part of this House its sympathy with Her Majesty on that distressing intelligence which arrived on Saturday last, and which occasioned Her Majesty so much grief, and still occasions her so much anxiety. I am sure that mine will be the common voice, when I express the sorrow and indignation with which the House and the country heard of the attempt to assassinate His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh. If anything could aggravate the atrocity of that act it would be, I think, the circumstance under which it was perpetrated. His Royal Highness was visiting the most distant possessions of the Sovereign; he was—not in the letter, but to a certain degree, in the spirit—representing the Majesty of England; he had
 1335 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to convey to Her Majesty the expression of the sorrow and indignation with which this House has learned the atrocious attempt to assassinate His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, while on a visit to Her Majesty's loyal Australian Colonies, and of their heartfelt congratulations to Her Majesty on His preservation from mortal injury; and to assure Her Majesty of the sympathy of this House in Her Majesty's
 1336
 MR. DISRAELI : In reply to the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets, I must say I think it necessary that the House should have a very distinct idea of the position in which it is placed. We are arriving, no doubt, at a very critical point. The policy of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) is one which—as all must agree—involves very great changes, and in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government it might lead to very serious consequences. Under such circumstances, it is extremely desirable that the opinion of this House should be taken in a manner which cannot lead to misconception. It has not yet been taken in that manner. Speaking in the interest of hon. Members on both sides, it is desirable that when those consequences are felt by the country, at least it shall not be in the power of Gentlemen to put various interpretations upon the motives and views with which they arrive at their vote. Now the vote before the holidays was not of that clear and unambiguous character. ["Oh, oh!"] Hon. Gentlemen opposite seem to agree with me as to the propriety of there being no ambiguity in their vote, but if they were satisfied with such a solution as was arrived at before the holidays, all I can say is, that I cannot agree with them. We wish to have a distinct issue raised on this important policy of the right hon. Gentleman respecting the disestablishment of the Church. We wish to have a distinct issue taken in the House on that subject. Such an issue has not yet been taken, and we look on this first Resolution as one of the greatest importance, and many hon. Gentlemen have intimated to me their desire to express their opinions upon it. If they can do so conveniently in the course of to-morrow evening, I shall not oppose the division. I never yet attempted to protract or prolong a debate unnecessarily; but I rose in order that I might not be misinterpreted as having entered into any agreement that the debate should finish to-morrow night. I have already explained the reason why we attribute to this Resolution so paramount an importance.
 MR. DISRAELI : In reply to the right hon. Gentleman, I wish to remark that this is a subject the importance of which really cannot be described in language which could be accused of exaggeration. It is, indeed, a far more important question than that which has been adverted to so liberally in the course of this debate — the great measure of Reform which we passed last year. And we attach greater importance to this first Resolution than we do even to the second or third. They may involve questions of constitutional and even legal difficulty, but, comparatively speaking, they are Resolutions of detail. This really announces and describes a policy. The preliminary discussion referred merely to the question of going into Committee, and the opinion of the Committee has not been given on this Resolution. ["Oh, oh!"  and 1419
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether any steps have been taken to settle a Table of Fees on Consecrations and Ordinations, with the consent of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, under the provisions of the Act of last Session?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had not been fortunate enough to catch the Speaker's eye in the former debate, and he was not disposed to allow an Establishment which had lasted 300 years to be swept away, with as little ceremony as if the question were one of a turnpike trust, without staling his opinions on the subject. There were many points connected with the first Reso-
 1422
 MR. HORSMAN : I must apologize to you, Sir, for not having explained that the extracts which I am quoting do not refer to any debates which have occurred this Session or during the existence of the present Parliament. A dissolution has taken place since their publication, and the events to which they refer are now historical. The right hon. Gentleman then proceeded to read the following extract:—
 "The first part of his (Mr. Gladstone's) speech was devoted to the establishment of the proposition that the Irish Church Establishment ought to be swept away. … He first laid down, in the most extreme terms, that its present position was a gross injustice to the Roman Catholic population, and that all proposed remedies short of absolute confiscation were hopeless; and then proceeded to explain to the Roman Catholics that this injustice was riveted on their necks by the Protestants of England and of Scotland." The Saturday Review. 1401 "I ask any one to consider what was the meaning of the picture which the right hon. Gentleman drew of the two provinces of Munster and Connaught. His argument, if I understand it, means this—'The property there reserved for the Church is far beyond its necessities.…. That being so, what are we to do with it? It is impossible for me to suggest what should be done with that property. That I leave to the councils of the future. I may hereafter be called upon to say what is to be done with it; but I wish that my speech may be on record in  Hansard, Hansard, v. "The debate on the Irish Church gave an admirable opportunity to Mr. Gathorne Hardy and Mr. Gladstone to address indirectly that great University constituency, for the suffrages of which they are to compete at the next election, on one of those subjects which lie nearest to his heart. We are afraid we must admit that the able Conservative who represents Leominster has made a great point for himself in the coming contest by the speech which he delivered on that occasion, and that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the other hand, while raising his reputation as a Liberal politician—nay with thinking men not only as a Liberal politician but as a Churchman and a Christian—by the admirable speech of Tuesday night, has taken another step towards that all but inevitable doom which, if not at the next election, before many years are over, must transfer him from the representation of a learned corporation always in the rear of the political life of England to the re-
 1402 1403 1404 1405 Regium Donum 1406 1407 1408
 MR. HORSMAN : Amusing and characteristic as was the speech of the gallant General, it offered no exception to the most remarkable feature of the debate, that every conceivable argument has been urged against the disestablishment of the Irish Church except the one which was most needed, and which alone could have weight. We have heard from the gallant General about the Act of Union, and the union of Church and State, about waiting for the Report of the Commission, and the danger as to the English Church, which is sure to follow if the Irish Church is disestablished. We have heard, too, in the able speech of the hon. Member for Londonderry of the irritation which the measure will cause in Ulster. The changes have been rung over and over again upon these objections; but, strange to say, no speaker on either side has thought fit to urge that which would be the only valid objection to the Resolutions—namely, that the Established Church in Ireland has fulfilled the conditions for which alone an Established Church could ever be intended, or ought to be permitted to exist. The Government and their supporters, not having a word to say upon the merits of the Established Church, having no argument whatever upon the case against the Resolutions of my right hon. Friend, are mindful—the hon. Members for Cambridge and West Kent especially—of that which is the great rule in Courts of Law, when you have a bad case abuse the plaintiff's attorney. Leaving their own lines undefended, they have turned their battery upon their opponents, whom they accuse of inconsistency, insincerity, and factious motives. "See," they say, "how inconsistent you are. Why, when you were in Office you would not touch the Irish Church, and now, when you are in Opposition, you will not let it alone. You change your sentiments with your seats in this House, and you unsay on one side of the House what you were vehemently saying on the other. "In fact, they accuse us—and nothing could be more disagreeable or severe to my mind—of doing exactly what they did themselves last year. "We wonder," they say, "you are not ashamed of yourselves; and there is your Leader exactly following the tactics of our Leader. Why, we wonder how you can follow him." Now, this charge would be a very unpleasant one if it were not ridiculous. The Reform Bill
 1394 1395 from the Ministerial Benches. 1396 Regium Donum, Regium Donum 1397 1398
 MR. HORSMAN : If the right hon. Gentleman will refer tomorrow, as I have referred, to the report of  The Times,
 MR. HORSMAN : Does the right hon. Gentleman repudiate the report of  The Times?
 MR. HORSMAN : I am so challenged by the right hon. Gentleman that I hope the House will give me its indulgence while I join issue with him on points upon which I would not otherwise trouble the Committee. Did he or did he not say that my right hon. Friend had made a speech in 1865 in which he indicated a policy the reverse of that which he is now pursuing? [Mr. GATHORNE HARDY: I said nothing of the sort.] Did he say there had been a change in my right hon. Friend which was very sudden and very surprising? Do you repudiate that? Did he say that the organs of the Press, even those who were now supporting his policy, were expressing their surprise at the suddenness of the change? I am thankful I have got the right hon. Gentleman to admit one thing.
 1399 "No lover of his country can look forward without something like terror to the day so confidently predicted, when Mr. Gladstone is to hold the chief place in the national councils. That day will inaugurate an era, a new system of Government, in which many good things and true, many institutions, time-honoured and cherished, among which the Established Church of Ireland will be perhaps the least, will be destined to fall before the march of popular enlightenment, as understood by Mr. Gladstone." The Morning Herald. "The debate on the Irish Church Establishment exhibited Mr. Gladstone in a light which strangely foreshadows his future career. His speech, beyond doubt, was the political event of Tuesday evening, and it reached to a point of Radicalism, threatening danger, should the right hon. Gentleman ever assume the chief responsibility of Government and Legislation in this kingdom.…. We can understand Mr. Dillwyn and Mr. Bernal Osborne—but when Mr. Gladstone, a Member of the Cabinet, speaking in the name of others than himself, assails the constitutional position, denies the efficiency, questions the rights, and would litigate upon the trusts of a great national Establishment, at what point are we to pause? Mr. Gladstone advocates a confiscation of endowments; he would carry an act of religious devastation through every diocese
 1400 The Standard. The Morning Star The Nonconformist,
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I never repudiated any report. I have repudiated what the right hon. Gentleman says.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I must request the right hon. Gentleman to quote from some authority on which I can rely.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I beg to say that I never used any language of the kind.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought the House ought to be grateful to the hon. Member for the King's County (Sir Patrick O'Brien) for his statement that the Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman would not be a panacea for the people of Ireland. That was not the only time the hon. Baronet had made that significant statement, for at a meeting of the Liberation Society, held in December last, he said that the Irish Church was no serious grievance; but they had still higher authority to the same effect from Archbishop Manning in his letter to Earl Grey, who said—
 "I will not shrink from venturing even upon the land question, because it is the chief condition on which the peace of Ireland depends. … In comparison with it all others are light. It is the question of peace or social war." 1380 1381 As You Like It, 1382 "The doctrine upon which the Papal Sovereignty is supported is so intolerable that the Roman or Italian who could acquiesce in it would be nothing but a worm fit to be trampled under foot." "Therefore the people who inhabit the States of the Church have not so much hope left as this, that if the Pope and the Cardinals are favourable to them, they may have some chance of relief. No! every Roman Catholic in the world is to presume to deal with their feelings and destinies and to assert a political right to dominion over them. This appears to me a doctrine more monstrous than that upon which the laws of Draco were founded." Cries of 1383
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, the consent of the Treasury had not
 1333
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he regretted that he had not been able to catch the Speaker's eye, as he had wished to elicit some explanations from the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) with whom he had voted in the late division. In the previous debate he had asked the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) to explain what course he intended to adopt with regard to certain details of the question before the House, and the right hon. Gentleman promised to give him an explanation, but failed to do so. Under these circumstances, he desired an opportunity of pointing out the grounds on which he voted on the last occasion, as well as those which might reasonably justify the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government in retaining his seat on the Treasury Bench rather than hand over the Government to the right hon. Member for South Lancashire.
 MR. SELWIN-IBBETSON  said, that having listened to many speeches, some with surprise and many with regret, he felt he could hardly reconcile himself to give a silent vote upon a question of so much gravity. He was desirous of raising his voice in unison with those who held the Established Church in Ireland as a sacred institution, and who were determined to use their utmost endeavours to maintain in its integrity the connection of Church and State which they believed to be necessary to the stability and welfare of their country. Whatever might be said of the political consistency of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) the Resolutions he had submitted to the House gave no uncertain sound. They were clear, distinct, and unmistakeable. They constituted the weapon with which the right hon. Gentleman intended to strike the first blow at the Established Church of both countries—the wedge driven in with which he hoped to uproot those institutions in this country, of which, unfortunately for so long, many have believed him to be the eloquent advocate and champion. They were now asked by the right hon. Gentleman to disestablish and disendow the Irish branch of the Establishment, with the assurance that all vested rights were to be preserved, and that the fabrics and residences of ministers were to be maintained. They were told if they consented to the right hon. Gentleman's proposition they would pacify Ireland, destroy Fenianism, and unite in reality the two countries. Now, if he could even be induced to believe that such results would follow the proposition before the House, he might hesitate even though some of our old landmarks had to be surrendered, in opposing the Resolutions. But what grounds had they for believing those statements beyond the more assertion of the right hon. Gentleman; what grounds for believing those assertions rather than the experience of those persons who, whilst willing to amend all that was capable of improvement in the condition of Ireland, were nevertheless determined to oppose to the utmost this attempt at revolutionizing our country, at the bidding of men who,
 1368 1369 "Let it alone for this year also, till the Royal Commission you have appointed has dug about it, and dunged it, and if it bear fruit, well; but if not, then after that will be the time to consider whether you shall cut it down."
 MR. DODSON : I may remind the right hon. Gentleman that he is not at liberty to quote extracts from newspapers referring to debates which have taken place in this House.
 MR. WALROND  said, that he must put aside the appeal that had been made to them to limit their view of this great controversy within the narrow scope of Irish prejudice, and apply to it the broader considerations of sin Imperial policy. The expression of a not unreasonable fear, that a successful attack on the Church in Ireland would give a base for future successful attacks on the Church in England, had been met by the simple assertion that the position of the Church in England and in Ireland are so different that the fate of the one cannot influence that of the other. The hon. Member who had just sat down talked of the position of the Church in Ireland as being isolated and independent; but it was a misnomer to call the Irish Establishment the "Church of Ireland"—it was,
 1360 1361 "If ever the Church and the Constitution of England should fall in those Islands (and they will fall together), it is not Presbyterian discipline, nor Popish hierarchy that will rise upon their ruins; it is not the Church of Rome, nor the Church of Scotland, nor the Church of Luther, nor of Calvin. On the contrary, all these Churches are menaced, and menaced alike; it is the fanatical religion of the 'rights of man,' which rejects all Establishments, all discipline, all ecclesiastical, and, in truth, all civil order, which will triumph and lay prostrate your Church." "I will say that not one of the zealots for a Protestant interest wishes more sincerely than I do, perhaps not half so sincerely, for the support of the Established Church in both these kingdoms. It is a great link towards holding fast the connection of religion with the State, and for keeping these two Islands in a close connection of opinion and affection. I wish it well, as the religion of the greater number of the primary land proprietors of the kingdom, with whom all Establishments of Church and State, for strong political reasons, ought, in my opinion, to be firmly connected." 1362 "It will advantage more than do us wrong." "Look! in this place ran Cassius' dagger through; See, what a rent the envious Casca made; Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd; And, as he plucked his cursed steel away, Mark how the blood of Cæsar follow'd it; As rushing out of doors, to be resolv'd If Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no; For Brutus, as you know, was Cæsar's angel." The Times "The landlord has no right to put the amount of the tithe rent-charge into his pocket; but is it equally clear that he has no just claim or right in the application of it? … I think the case may be made more clear by excluding the ecclesiastical element for a moment, and treating it on ordinary principles of business. Suppose, for example, that all the estates in this county were
 1363 s. 1364 Letter on the Penal Laws "I speak on the supposition that there is a disposition to take the State in the condition in which it is found, and to improve it in that state to the best advantage. On this idea, an education fitted to each order and division of men, such as they are found, will be thought an affair rather to be encouraged than discountenanced." Letter to Mr. Smith "My decided opinion is that all the three religions prevalent more or less in various parts of
 1365 "I am the more serious on the positive encouragement to be given to this religion (always however as secondary), because the serious and earnest belief and practice of its professors form, as things stand, the most effectual barrier against Jacobinism"—
 MR. AGAR-ELLIS  said, he considered that the time for discussing the question had passed, and that the Irish Church was doomed from the time the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) put his Amendment upon the Paper. He had at first refrained from voting on the subject because he did not wish to have a hand in pulling down the Established Church in Ireland; but since Members on both sides of the House had resolved on the work the only question now remaining was who should do it, whether the present Prime Minister whose policy was simply expediency, or the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). He believed it would be the latter, whose ability and earnestness were equally undoubted, and he accordingly appealed to him to be merciful in dealing with those to whom he must needs be just; that he would consult their prejudices and deal gently even with their foibles, so that their ex-
 1370
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he believed that the existence of the Established Church in Ireland was an injustice to the people of that country; and he would support the Resolutions, because he thought that, in removing an injustice, we took the first step towards ameliorating the condition of a Country. The House could not doubt what the verdict of the United Kingdom would be, for during the last three weeks in England, Scotland, and Ireland public opinion had pronounced itself singularly favourable to the propositions of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). ["Hear, hear!"  and 1358 1359
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, the circumstance of his not being enabled to address the House till that late period of the debate would be productive at least of one advantage, that, being indisposed to travel over the ground occupied by previous speakers, he should not think it necessary to trespass at any length on its indulgence. Indeed, were it not for the allusions which had been rather pointedly made to Catholic Members by the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Gorst), and the hon. Member for Londonderry (Sir
 1371 1372 par excellence, 1373 1374
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that from the answer of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, it appeared to him not only that he would give the House no assurance that the debate would close to-morrow night, but that he had given them an assurance that it would not close to morrow night. The position of affairs appeared to him to be this—and he spoke as one interested, not only in this Resolution, but in the general conduct of the affairs of that House—that there was a Government in office which, as far as he could understand, had made up their minds, whatever the decision of the House might be upon this subject, to treat it merely as the decision of the majority, and then to proceed to business. Let the House bear in mind that the second and third Resolutions had hardly yet been touched in argument, and there were several very important measures besides these Resolutions to come before them. There was the Reform Bill for Scotland, the Reform Bill for Ireland, and also the Bill for the prevention of Bribery and Corruption, and how was time to be had for discussing these important measures? Those who had spoken to-night had not advanced much new argument; and if they went on in this way there was no human probability of their being able to overtake the other important business of the Session. Unless the Government imported some novelty into the discussion to-morrow, it would be within the competency of the House to decide that the debate should not be further protracted; and he thought that it ought not to be spun out unless there were some argument to be adduced, by which hon. Members could hope to change the opinion which was deliberately arrived at before the Easter Recess.
 MR. ALLEN  said: I felt anxious to say a few words in the course of this debate, looking at the matter from that stand-point which I think a member of the English Established Church may fairly take. And I feel bound to give my vote in favour of this Resolution, because I am fully convinced of the justice and necessity of the Irish Church ceasing to exist as an Establishment. For although a Churchman myself, I regard the Irish Church as an anomaly which ought to exist no longer, and indeed as an anomaly which never ought to have existed at all; that in a country with a population of 5,500,000, the Established Church, with its great revenue of £450,000 per annum, should be the Church of a small minority of 690,000 people. Now this is a state of things with reference to an Established Church to which, I believe, no parallel can be found in the history of Christianity; and it is a state of things which I hold it would be unwise and unjust in this House to allow to exist any longer.
 1377 Regium Donum, 1378 Regium Donum, Regium Donum; Regium Donum 1379
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of the Government to propose to the House during the Session any, mid if any what, alteration in the Law affecting the carriage of parcels by Railways?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to know, whether it is the intention of the Board of Trade to take some steps for the purpose of informing the public of their present views in respect to the matter referred to?
 MR. TITE  said, in reply, that there could be no doubt that when the Metropolitan Board of Works took away or obstructed the enjoyment of any existing stairs, pier, or landing-place, they were bound to take care that some other pier or landing-place should be erected and provided for the public. This had been done, or was doing, at very great expense, and he believed with very great advantage to the public. They were advised that, that being done under the clause of the Act of Parliament under which these works were constructed, they were not liable to any personal compensation in respect to any rights referred to by the hon. Member. The Act the Board were carrying out was an Act brought in and passed by Her Majesty's Government, and handed over to the Metropolitan Board to carry into effect, who were bound by it, and not at liberty to go beyond it. If anyone thought himself wronged by their proceedings, under the 21st section of the Act, application might be made to the Court of Queen's Bench, when the rights of parties would, of course, be respected and attended to.
 MR. WATKIN : It is stated that a more recent telegram has been received respecting the health of his Royal Highness, and announcing that the person who fired at him has been tried, found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged. I wish to know if that be true?
 MR. WATKIN —who had placed the following Amendment on the Paper:—
 "After the word 'That,' insert 'while this Committee considers that the future position of the Established Church in Ireland should be finally decided upon by the Reformed Parliament, to be convened at the earliest period after the Electoral Revision of the present year, it now resolves that' "— "Whether Ireland remain in its present barbarism, or grow in wealth and civilization, in either case the downfall of the present Establishment is certain; a savage people will not endure the insult of a hostile religion; a civilized one will reasonably insist on having their own." 1340 "They see a Church richly supported by the spoils of their own Church Establishment, in whose tenets not one-tenth part of the people believe. Is it possible to believe this can endure?"
 MR. WATKIN  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. H. Lewis), he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, Whether the Metropolitan Board of Works intend to give any compensation to those persons who have, with the consent of the Thames Conservancy, erected and maintained piers for the accommodation of steamboat passengers, but which piers will be removed on the completion of the Embankment?
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he did not insist upon the Union of England and Ireland being an insuperable obstacle to the disestablishment of the Irish Church. As long as there was a Parliament in existence it must have power to consider all questions. The Act of Union was one of the most solemn Acts of Parliament, and he did not believe the Union it established would be maintained if there were different religious arrangements in the two countries. You could not have a voluntary system in one country and continue an Established Church in the other. The fund for the support of the Irish Church was described as being out of all proportion to its real wants. So long, however, as you treated the country as one united Empire, you were bound to look to the case of the Church in every part of the kingdom. Now, the Church statistics of Ulster had never been given in this House, and he should like to call attention to them. The total Church revenue in Ulster arising from rent, glebe-lands, tithe rent-charge, sums paid by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and value of the Bishops' sees, was £211,234; the number of clergy in Ulster was 684, and of the Church population was 401,392. Dividing the emoluments of the Church by the number of the clergy the income of each clergyman appeared to be £308, certainly not an excessive income considering the large size of the parishes. Dividing the number of the Church population by the number of clergymen, the average flock of each clergyman was 586 persons. He believed that if such a comparison were made in England, excluding certain large towns, the remuneration might be something like the same, but the average number of the flock would not be. In many communities in Dublin and in other counties the case was quite as strong as in Ulster. Then, again, the interest of the 500,000 Presbyterians must be considered, for their  Regium Donum 1346 "That he was not aware of any other Scriptural authority for this system than that derived from the period when every man did that which was right in his own eyes." "The voluntary system if it be understood to intend the exclusion of national and parochial provision for the support of religion, is only another phrase for the wish of the Devil, who is content that much should be professed to be done, so long as little be really done, to overthrow his kingdom." "The emissaries and instruments of the Church of Rome will never rest till they have crushed the Church of England, as knowing that alone to be able to cope with them, and that they can never answer her fairly, but lie abundantly open to the irresistible force of her arguments and the antiquity and purity of her doctrine." 1347 "Facilis descensus Averni. Sed revocare gradum, superasque evadere ad auras, Hic labor, hoc opus est." 1348 1349 Esmonde, 1350
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  explained, that he had not said that there was any conspiracy in the matter. But what he would say was, that a programme was made of those who were to speak, and he had even heard of the case of one hon. Member anxious to address the House who was told that he ought to go to the Whip on his side and ask his permission to speak. When that was the case he thought it was time to change the system, and for the House to consider seriously whether they ought not to retain the liberty of debate.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that there was a growing tendency in some quarters to "job" debates and cheek the freedom of discussion in that House by making arrangements that certain persons were to address the House as they pleased, while less eminent Members had no opportunity of stating their opinions. It was not right that A and B, and perhaps Z, should address the House, and that then it should be arranged that the debate should close. The consequence of the system was that the same persons addressed the House on every subject, and no fresh ideas were presented, because no one, not in a certain category, had any chance to be heard; and he knew an instance of a Member who was told that if he wished to address the House, he had better apply to the Whips. He thought things were come to a strange state, when a Member could not address the House without asking permission of the Whips. He protested against Members being thus silenced or gagged. It was time for the House to take this into consideration, for otherwise the freedom of debate would be practically at an end. When great questions were brought before the House, it was not to be expected that Independent Members should remain silent. The system of terminating debates by arrangement between the Whips ought to be brought within very narrow limits. The right hon. Gentle-
 1423
 MR. GORST  said, he did not think this could be treated as an Irish question. It was one which deeply affected the people of this country. He did not wonder at the Irish Roman Catholic Members looking on this, as they did on all other questions, from a peculiarly Irish point of view. They said, that the Irish Establishment was an heretical one; that it did no social good to the people of that country, and that the whole mass of the Irish people were against it. If Ireland were a separate country, they would not attempt to disestablish the Irish Church, but would simply change its religion and make it Roman Catholic. The line of argument adopted by those Members was straightforward; but he would point out to hon. Gentlemen that a civil war must take place before the Roman Catholic Church could be made the Established religion of Ireland. He objected  in toto 1341 1342 Laughter. Laughter. 1343 1344 1345
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that the Return referred to by the hon. Member was made up to the 31st of March, and would have been laid on the table about the middle of April, but that the Easter Recess had occurred at an unusual period. It would be laid on the table, however, in the course of a few days.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : He was found dead, but we have no information as to the manner of his death.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, the question would come before the Board of Trade to-morrow. He thought that the answer which he had just given would be intelligible enough to the public.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that a clause in a Bill now under the charge of the President of the Board of Trade dealt with this subject, and he was glad to have this opportunity of removing a misconception which nothing in the clause, as originally drawn, warranted, though he admitted it required alteration in other respects. An idea had become prevalent that it was the Government's intention to change the law with respect to "packed" parcels, and to interfere with the practice of sending various articles to different consignees, packed within one inclosure. The Government never had any intention of the kind, but proposed to deal with another practice, that of a carrier collecting a variety of parcels of different descriptions and different values, and bringing all to the railway, in bulk as it were, unpacked and unassorted; large parcels of small value being mixed with small parcels of large value. For these, the carriers paid, in the aggregate, a low charge, as if these
 1334
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  moved that the Chairman do report Progress.
 MR. DYKE  said, he had listened carefully to the speech of the hon. Member opposite (Captain Grosvenor), but failed to discover in it any clear argument proving that the Roman Catholics were suffering from present injustice. Looking back upon some of the arguments which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) had used in former years, and contrasting these with his more recent utterances, he had been altogether unable to discover in his modern views any sufficient answer to those which he formerly entertained. This was peculiarly the case with a speech made in 1835 upon the Appropriation Clause. The right hon. Gentleman no doubt would say that the speech was made some time ago, and
 1355 "If the Protestants should ever happen again to be in a minority in that House, he, for one, avowed his conviction that a return to the ancient appropriation would be the fair and legitimate consequence. Until that should be the case—until the Legislative Union should be dissolved, until the representatives of the Roman Catholics constituted the majority in that House—he, for one, should raise his humble voice as a Protestant against the principle involved in the Motion before the House. The great grievance complained of in Ireland was that the Protestant Establishment there was paid for by the Roman Catholic inhabitants. Was it so paid for? Were tithes paid for that purpose, or were not tithes rather a part of the surplus profit of the land, which went, not to the cultivator of the soil, but to the owner of it? Tithe was paid by the landlord, and the grievances on this point complained of by the people of Ireland were rather in theory than in reality." [3  Hansard, Regium Donum, 1356 The Freeman's Journal "The debate will be one of the most memorable on record, and the issue will involve not only the fate of a Ministry, but the fate sooner or later of the dominant State Church, not only in Ireland, but in England. The great Liberal party are determined to deal a deathblow at all State endowments. The Irish Church, as the most vulnerable in structure, must be the first righteous victim." "We applaud the fall of the Irish Church—first of all, because it is a barrier to the development of the Catholic faith, an outpost of the Anglican Establishment, which is the fortress of Protastantism in Europe. Once the Church has fallen, the sect will crumble away." "When they found I was anxious for their good, as well as that of my own Protestant people, we were soon on the pleasantest terms, spoke in a friendly way on practical religious duties, avoiding irritating subjects: they came to me for advice, or relief in sickness; they trusted me with their letters, money, and affairs, and my leaving the parish was occasion for much lamentation among them. I quote words used by one when saying good-bye. 'How shall we all get on when
 1357
 CAPTAIN PACK-BERESFORD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the manufacture and repair of machinery in use in the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich has not hitherto been executed in the Royal Gun Factory, under the immediate superintendance of the officers connected with that Department; and, whether any change has been made recently in this system, or if any change is contemplated; and, if so, to what effect?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask. Whether Mr. Hawkshaw was included in the Committee?
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, the Bill referred to by the hon. Member was ready but; it wholly depended on the course of business whether he should feel it his duty to introduce it or not.
 MR. CORRY  replied, that deep sea soundings between England and Gibraltar, and along the Mediterranean to Alexandria, and through the Red Sea, were specially obtained by the Admiralty between 1857and 1859, with a view to laying a submarine telegraph communication, and the line of the soundings had recently been successfully completed between Aden and Bombay. As far, therefore, as the soundings were concerned, there was no impediment to the establishment of telegraphic communication between India and England.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that the electoral statistics would be laid on the table to morrow. The Land Bill had been ready for some time; but it would be useless for him to introduce it unless he could see that there was a prospect of securing a full discussion for the measure, and that there was a chance of passing it this Session. Should he see a likelihood of this being the case, he would introduce the Bill, and explain its provisions to the House.
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, he could sympathize with the motive which induced the hon. Member to ask this
 1460
 MR. VERNER  said, that having heard a rumour that there was a wish to close the debate that night, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether any opportunity would be afforded to Members of northern constituencies in Ireland to express not only their own opinions, but also the opinions of their constituents?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, it will, doubtless, be for the convenience of hon. Members that they should have some idea as to what is likely to be proposed in the course of the evening; and therefore, as I may consider that the Question of the hon. Member for Lisburn (Mr. Verner) has some reference to what fell from me last night, I beg to assure the hon. Gentleman that there is nothing further from the intentions of those on this side of the House—though we are desirous of allowing the other Public Business to go forward as soon and with as little embarrassment as possible—than to force any decision upon a question of this kind. In what I said last night I was governed a great deal by the observation I then made, that, although we heard many very interesting and important speeches, yet they turned more upon the conduct of the Government, of the Liberal party, and of myself than upon the character and case of the Irish Church. I hope that in the discussions that are to come there will be a disposition to place, on each side of the House, the best construction on the motives and proceedings of the other. And, anxious as we are to have no part in extending the debate, the hon. Member need not be the least afraid that I or any Friend of mine will attempt by a bare majority to suppress the expression of opinion.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I saw one of the Commissioners to-day, and learned from him that the Report of the Commissioners will be signed on Thursday, and of course it will be presented as soon as possible after that day.
 MR. GLADSTONE : If I understand the Resolution, it is likely to place the matter upon a very reasonable footing, so as at once to secure the order of our proceedings, and at the same time to give to all Members of the House the fullest scope. Any proposal for a Vote in Supply must divide itself into two brandies—first, the general structure of the Vote, and, secondly, the particular items of which it is composed. In future we shall consider, in the first instance, the particular items of the Vote; and, after that, it will be open to any hon. Member to raise the general question of the structure of the Vote, and its general fitness for the purpose for which it is intended. Now, the right hon. Gentleman, on the part of the Government, proposes that in cases where particular items may have been confirmed by Vote of the Committee, if subsequently there should be a reduction of the aggregate amount of Vote, a difficulty might arise in the mind of the Government whether they would be acting in accordance with the intention of the House if they reduced any particular item. Well, Sir, I think it is obvious that if the Committee confirm an item in a Vote it must be understood to do it with reference to the general amount. I must be understood to mean that the amount put down for this particular item is not unreasonable.
 MR. BUXTON  said, nothing had astonished him so much in the debate as the unparallelled weakness of the arguments by which these Resolutions had been encountered. Surely the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government must be ashamed to march through Coventry with such a ragged regiment of reasons as those which had been put forward on his side of the question. First of all, there was what he might call the Lord Plunket argument. They had been deluged with quotations from speeches of Lord Plunket, Lord Ellenborough, and others, as if they at this day were to be deterred from their purpose by the  ipse dixit 1471 1472 1473 Ohe! jam satis est esprit de corps, 1474 1475 Hamlet "We do it wrong, being so majestical, To offer it the show of violence; For it is, as the air, invulnerable, And our vain blows malicious mockery." "Spirits are not finely touched, But to fine issues;"
 COLONEL HOGG  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just addressed the House had described himself as a friend of the Established Church and a friend of the Protestant religion. All he could say was "Save me from having friends." The hon. and learned Gentleman told them that the Irish Church was a violation of the principles of Christianity, that it was absurd, that it was wretched, and he likewise informed them that what he meant by disestablishment was destruction. At one dash the hon. and learned Gentleman took off 200,000 of the Protestant inhabitants of Ireland and then talked of the remainder. He had treated the House to a disquisition on Greek grammar and the repeal of the Union. He could not argue about Greek grammar, and the repeal of the Union was not before the House. He had in vain waited to hear a case made out for the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman. On the previous evening he had expected to hear a good argument for the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland from the hon. Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue); but having listened to that hon. Gentleman, with the attention and pleasure which his speeches always gave rise to, he had heard nothing from him but what he must call a wild cry for justice. One might have supposed that the hon. Member came from some land of slaves and not from a country which possessed the same laws as those enjoyed by England. They were told that the disestablishment of the Irish Church would be a step to conciliation, but the House had a right to ask how many of
 1502 1503 "An attack on the Established Church in Ireland is a necessary preliminary to an attack on
 1504 "I entreat you to listen to none of these petitions or speeches which tend to the injury or the destruction of the Church in Ireland. Do what may be necessary; do what it may be proper to do in order to render that Church more beneficial to the people of that country; but I entreat you to adhere strictly, in spirit, and according to the letter to the compact you have made, and not permit it to be supposed in any quarter whatever that you entertain the most distant intention of departing, in the slightest degree, from that arrangement."—[3  Hansard,
 The MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : The speeches to which we have listened this evening have, perhaps, touched more nearly the points before the Committee and the Resolutions of my right hon. Friend than those more amusing and exciting speeches which were addressed to us towards the close of last night's debate. Still, the criticisms passed to-night upon the Resolutions did not appear to me to be more relevant to the real question at issue than were the personal discussions of last night. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Adderley) inveighed at great length against the vagueness and indefiniteness of the Resolutions. Is that the ground on which the Members from Ireland oppose the Resolutions? If you tell me that if we will only make the Resolutions definite—if we will only inform the House in what manner and degree we propose to disestablish and disendow the Irish Church, you will be prepared to argue the question as one of detail, the difference between us will not long prevail. If we are agreed that it is not expedient or just that the Establishment of the Protestant episcopal religion
 1505 "The disestablishment of the Church is the
 1506 "You may dissolve the Union if you please, but as long as that Union exists there is but one Church; and if you dissolve the union between Church and State in Ireland the dissolution of the union between Church and State will follow as a necessary consequence in England also."—[3  Hansard, 1507 1508 1509 1510 1511 1512
 MR. DENMAN : Sir, I am not one of those who, like the noble Lord the Member for Cambridgeshire (Viscount Royston) are "just beginning to think" about the Irish Church. Some thirty years ago I was induced to think of it by hearing its total condemnation from the lips of one from whom all my most cherished political convictions were derived. I soon came to the conclusion, on inquiry and inspection, that the Established Church in Ireland was an institution which ought to have ceased to exist many years ago. The grounds of this conviction were, and are, deep and solid. With me it is no matter of detail. I firmly and sincerely believe that to keep up that Establishment under the circumstances existing in Ireland is a violation of the first principles of justice; that it is a departure from the great commandment of Christianity, which bids us to do to others as we would be done by; that it is a cause of weakness and not of strength to Protestantism, and a stumbling-block in the path of evangelization. This, Sir, being my severe conviction, I own my regret that the arguments which have been brought forward in its favour, and some of those for its disestablishment, instead of being based upon considerations of right, justice, or expediency, have been mainly composed of criminations and recriminations bandied about from side to side of the House. Perhaps, Sir, so far as the arguments of our opponents were concerned this was inevitable; for it is indeed difficult to understand how anyone, except under the influence of an intellect obfuscated by the mists of party spirit, can stand up in this House, at this time of day, and assert that the Irish Church as a State-endowed Establishment ought any longer to be maintained. Sir, I cannot boast of that ignorance of Ireland so candidly confessed by the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works (Lord John Manners). I have travelled and visited to some extent on more than one occasion in Ireland. More than twenty years ago, judging from the
 1497 "When Parliament had declared that there was no reason why one religion should have any preference over the other, was it to be supposed that the Catholics of Ireland would consent willingly to maintain the clergy of a religion not professed by more than one-fifth of the inhabitants of that country? How could they—when it was admitted that there were 4,000,000 of Catholics and only 800,000 Protestants—hope to maintain the Protestant ascendancy?"—[1  Hansard, 1498 "You propose to open to the Catholics Parliament, and to invest them with political power; to make them capable of acting in the highest offices of the State, and of bring the responsible advisers of the Crown,"—[1  Hansard, "Do you then mean  bonâ fide "If you do, can you believe that they (the Catholics) will or can remain contented with the limits you assign to them? Do you think that when they constitute, as they must do—not this year or the next, but in the natural and therefore certain order of things—by far the most powerful body in Ireland—the body most controlling and directing the government of it, do you think, I say, that they will view with satisfaction the state of your Church or their own? Do you think that, if they are constituted like other men, if they have organs, senses, affections, passions like yourselves—if they are, as no doubt they are, sincere and zealous professors of that religious faith to which they belong; if they believe your 'intrusive Church' to have usurped the temporalities which it possesses, do you think that they will not aspire to the re-establishment of their own Church in all its ancient splendour? Is it not natural that they should? If I argue even from my own feelings, if I place myself in their situation, I answer that it is natural." "If the Protestant religion was to be maintained in Ireland as the religion of the State, then Catholic emancipation would not be the basis of tranquillity."—[2  Hansard, 1499 1500 alpha privativa 1501
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goldney) had misunderstood the nature of the proposal, which was that if, for instance, one or two items were affirmed and the Vote itself afterwards reduced, the whole of the items would be remitted to the Government for re-consideration.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving an Amendment in the standing Resolutions having reference to proceedings in Committee of Supply, said his object was to meet the objections
 1465 "That after a Question has been proposed from the Chair for a reduction of the whole Vote, no Motion shall be made for omitting or reducing any item."
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, one of the most difficult duties devolving upon an individual occupying the office I have the honour to hold is to attempt to regulate the conduct of a debate in a manner which will give satisfaction to both sides of the House. With regard to the present Question, first of all it presents itself to me as affecting the feeling of the Government, and then as regards the sentiments of the House. The Government have obtained what they wanted—that the opinion of the House should be taken upon a distinct issue; and we shall offer no obstacle to the conclusion of the debate. At the same time, it should be recollected that it is a question of great constitutional importance, upon which Gentlemen on both sides of the House—especially if there be a prospect of its being submitted to the consideration of the people generally—reasonably wish to express their opinions. I therefore have to consider the reasonable requirements of both sides, and have no other wish than to adopt a fair conclusion, and it remains for the House to express to me their general view of the subject. I regretted last night to see that reference was made to the circumstance that the debate was chiefly maintained by Gentlemen who generally do not take part in discussions. Although it is a necessary consequence of our Parliamentary constitution, and the mode in which business in this House must be carried on, that generally discussion must be confined to a few what are called leading Members, yet there are questions which sometimes arise, like the present, on which it is not fair that the
 1463
 MR. DISRAELI  replied that he regretted he had neglected to communicate privately with the hon. Baronet, as it had been his intention to ask him for some explanation of his Question. He was not under any obligation that he could recall to introduce a Bill relating to the Registration of Electors in England and Wales; and he believed that if the Boundary Bill were passed at the period he at present thought quite practicable, all that was requisite for the proper registration of electors in England and Wales would be provided for in that measure and the Bill of last year. He did not attach any definite idea to the Question of the hon. Baronet; he must, therefore, excuse him from answering, and not set it down to any want of courtesy.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was glad to see that the hon. Gentleman duly estimated
 1476 1477 Delenda est Ecclesia Hiberniæ. Opposition Cheers. 1478 1479 1480 1481 1482 1483
 MR. BAGNALL  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether his attention has been called to the dismissal of Mr. Coble from his office as Collector of Customs at Whitby; and, whether the Treasury is prepared to reconsider the case?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. and learned Member who has just spoken has made one or two assumptions such as, are said, not to be unusual in Irish oratory. He has informed the House that the Irish branch of the United Church does not represent religion. It cannot be denied that the essence of every Protestant establishment is religion. But what is the toleration of this advocate of concession, when he rises and declares that there is no religion in the Irish branch of the English Church? Again, what says
 1522 1523 A Proposal for Religious Equality in Ireland. "If my opinion were less decided than it is on the meaning of the Catholic Oath, or I deemed the policy recommended by Mr. Miall more hopeful than I believe it to be, I should still think our adoption of it unwise. The Church by law established in Ireland is the Church of a community everywhere considerable in respect of property, worth, intelligence, and the power of avenging a disgrace on the religion of the Irish people. It is strong in the supposed identity of its interests with those of the Church of England. Nothing short of a convulsion, tearing up both Establishments by the roots, could accomplish its overthrow. Nor is it by any means clear that its overthrow would benefit our religion. With the exception of the zealots who disturb the dioceses of Dublin, Ferns, Cashel, and Tuam, the 'sapping and mining' of religious belief has not been thought a worthy occupation by the prelates or
 1524 1525 "His Grace found Armagh a nest of mud cabins, and will leave it, a will-built city of slate and stone. When it is considered that all this has been done in the short space of seven or eight years, I should not be accused of exaggeration if I said that they were noble and spirited works, even if undertaken upon a man's personal estate; but how much more then are they worthy of praise when executed, not for his own posterity, but for the public good." 1526 "I must, as a public officer, whose duties called him into close contact with the clergy throughout the most remote, and (by all other of the higher classes) deserted parts of the kingdom, declare, in common justice, that were it not for the residence, and merit, and political influence of the parochial clergy, every trace of refinement and civilization would disappear." "Go where you will," he said, "the result is the same. Go to the Protestant cantons of Switzerland and you will find them advanced in civilization and wealth, far before the Roman Catholic cantons. Look at Scotland with her barren soil, but her Protestant religion. But go to the South of Ireland, and you will find agriculture in its most primitive state." 1527 An Inquiry into the Causes of the Poverty and Discontent in Ireland, "The following opinion of the Meath Tenant Right Society is worthy of attention. It was contained in an address to the inhabitants of that county, adopted at a meeting of the society held at Navan on the 26th November, 1865, the very Rev. John Nicolls, P.P., and V.G., in the chair;
 1528 "The House will permit me to read a letter which was adverted to by my right hon. and learned friend (Mr. Whiteside) in a former debate. An Association has been formed in Dublin, called the National Association, for particular objects, and with the concurrence, sanction, and support of Archbishop Cullen, of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland. The letter in question was written by the Secretary of that Association, and addressed to an Irish journal:—'Sir,—The  Irish Times Hansard, 1529 A laugh. 1530 "Possibly, also, they considered that the result of this 'episcopal policy' is that the Irish people ( i.e. "One of the most strange results of this 'episcopal policy' has been that, within a few years, the Irish Members have gradually dwindled from forty-six, at which they stood up to 1857, down to thirty, being their present number. In quality they are even more reduced than in quantity, so far as regards public experience and practical knowledge of Irish matters. For trained Irish veterans are substituted raw Roman recruits and Parliamentary tyros, either Protestant or Catholic." 1531 1532 1533
 MR. REARDEN  said, he was surprised that the Prime Minister, who had assisted last year to pass a liberal measure of Reform, should call the Roman Catholics by a disageeable nickname. [ Cries of
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, When he proposes to introduce the Bill for the amendment of the Law relating to the Registration of Electors in Counties and Boroughs in England and Wales?
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, he had certainly been under the impression that a Bill was to have been introduced for the express purpose of calling upon certain officers in parishes and boroughs to put upon the registration those persons who, in their lists, stood entitled to the possession of the franchise.
 MR. GREENE  (who had on the Paper a Notice respecting Colliery Accidents and for the appointment of a Royal Commission on the subject) said, he had the right, as his name was first on the Paper, to bring the Motion forward. ["Oh, oh!"] If hon. Members opposite thought that they could put him down he begged to tell them that they would not do it if they tried till six o'clock next morning. ["Oh, oh!"] If the interruptions were continued he would persevere with his Motion. ["Oh, oh!"] He was in earnest about it. He felt very strongly on the subject; and if it were not that he thought he should be doing the cause an injury by now pressing the Motion he certainly should not be inclined to withdraw it. He believed it to be as much more important than the Irish question as the Abyssinian war was to a street row, ["Oh, oh!"] He desired to remind hon. Members that 2,468 men were killed in coal mines in the short space of two years. If any hon. Gentleman opposite did not think that that was important, perhaps he would get up and say so. ["Oh, oh!"] He desired to say that if hon. Members thought they could ever stop him, they were mistaken. They had taken the wrong man in hand; but at the same time he did not intend to press the Motion. He withdrew it at the wish of the Government; but he hoped that they would give him some other day for bringing it forward.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he expected to hear some arguments in answer to the speech of the noble Marquess the Member for North Lancashire (the Marquess of Hartington); but the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Mowbray) had not offered a single argument that was worthy of the House, or of the great question before it. Would the right hon. and learned Gentleman resist the partial diversion of the property of the Irish Church by the suggestion that the castle of an individual member might be destroyed? Was there no way of meeting this question but by saying that it touched the Monarchy, the House of Lords, the appellate jurisdiction of the Privy Council, without showing in what manner? The Sovereign was asked to allow the House to discuss a matter essentially necessary before a Bill could be laid on the table of that House. That was the only point in which this Resolution touched the Crown. But what did the right hon. and learned Gentleman think of the Temporalities Act, which swept away several bishoprics? Did not that touch both the Monarchy and the House of Lords? Yet the Act had been for several years on the statute book. If the question was of importance to the Empire, it was of vital moment and interest to Ireland, more especially in the present critical condition of that country, when it was looking to the House of Commons for earnestness and sincerity in its attempts at remedial legislation. The noble Lord the Member for the county of Londondery (Lord Claud J.
 1519 1520 "In England it was the struggle of the great body of the people for the establishment of their liberties against the efforts of a small faction; in Ireland it was the establishment of the power of a small faction at the expense of the civil liberties and properties of the majority." 1521
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he had not promised to bring in a Bill on the subject, but only to consider whether he should do so. The Bill was in the hands of the draughtsman; but he was not prepared to say at present whether he would introduce it.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in
 1456
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, the Commission referred to had not yet made its Report. It was originally the intention to extend the inquiry to the outports; but it was doubtful how soon this would be done.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that, after full consideration of the further representations made by Mr. Coble, and looking to the length of time which had elapsed since the inquiry took place, the Treasury had come to the conclusion that no sufficient reasons had been adduced to
 1458
 MR. WHALLEY : Have not the women and children suffered more?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, What measures have been taken for the removal of the 86th Regiment from the Mauritius,
 1461
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had supported the former Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire with great reluctance; but he had done so because he considered that Protestantism in Ireland, so far as it was connected with the Church, had altogether failed. Those who conducted the Establishment were either incompetent or were traitors to the trust reposed in them. ["Oh!"] It was on that ground he supported the right hon. Gentleman. He had considered the matter with great anxiety, and he had come to the conclusion that protection in religion should be swept away and free trade established. The Resolutions had, however, been supported upon a wrong principle. It was said that they should make concession to a foul conspiracy. And this was said by a right hon. Gentleman—a neighbour of his in Wales. He did not believe that the Fenian conspirators would accept any such concession. He lived in Wales. It was said that the Dissenters in Ireland were numerous, and that in justice to them the Church should be swept away. But in Wales the Dissenters were two to one as compared with the Church, and if he endeavoured to get up an agitation to sweep away the Church of Wales, he would be regarded as a lunatic. It was shameful that attempts at legislation of this kind should stop the way of measures
 1534
 MR. DYCE NICOL  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether, in the present unsatisfactory state of Telegraphic Communication with the East, steps are being taken to ascertain the soundings between the English Channel and Gibraltar, and along the Mediterranean to Alexandria, as also from entrance of the Red Sea to Bombay, for the purpose of facilitating and encouraging the early establishment of an independent
 1459
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the following announcement, which appeared in  The Times "Sir John Pakington, as Secretary of State for War, has nominated the following gentlemen to act as a Committee to inquire into the character and construction of our Coast Defences, whether of iron, masonry, or earthwork, as recommended by the Royal Commission on National Defences:—Admiral the Hon. Sir F. G. Grey, G.C.B., chairman; Major General Collingwood Dickson, C.B., Royal Artillery; Major General Simmons, C.B., Royal Engineers; Major General Harness, C.B., Royal Engineers; and Mr. Hawkshaw, Civil Engineer;"
 MR. BAGWELL  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman who commenced the debate (Colonel Barttelot) had spoken of himself as having been much in Ireland; but if he had not the fullest reliance on what proceeded from him he should be apt to suppose that his statement was a romance, since the account given by the hon. and gallant Gentleman was so utterly unlike the reality. He (Mr. Bagwell) congratulated the noble Lord (Viscount Royston) on introducing, if not much novelty into the debate, at least a very novel mode of stating things to the House. When tithes were paid in kind, and murders and riots and all kinds of positive conditions of disorganization prevailed, the universal opinion of the people of Ireland was that it was unjust to the people. At this advanced period of the debate it would be very hard to say anything new. Still, he hoped he might be able to say something that might be true. Had any Gentleman on either side of the House ventured to say that if he were establishing a new state of things in Ireland he would establish the Irish Church as it at present existed? No one had ventured to say it, or to write it, aye, or to think it. The great argument in favour of the Irish Church was that it had existed for 300 years. But this was at the same time its strongest condemnation. Tipperary 200 years ago was denuded of its native population, which was entirely Protestant; and in the old leases there was a penalty of five times the rent if any house was inhabited by Papists. He had hundreds of such leases which had once been granted on his estate. Yet what was the case now? Tipperary was the most Catholic part of Ireland, the seat of a cathedral and of a monastic institution. And yet they were told that the Irish Church had spread Protestantism. He spoke as a Protestant when he said that he took issue on that
 1493 1494
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, he would beg to ask, How many men of the 86th had died?
 MR. VANCE  said, that he had been lately in Ireland, and had studied the current of popular feeling; and he believed that, though the Roman Catholics would vote for the disestablishment of the Protestant Church, they were really very indifferent as to such a measure, unless it were the pioneer to fixity of tenure and a repeal of the Union. The Protestant population naturally felt aggrieved at the House having taken so hasty a step without awaiting the result of the important inquiry which was now going on. The numerous meetings against disestablishment that had taken place in Ireland were a proof of the dislike entertained for the proposal by the Protestants. The effect of disestablishment and disendowment would be to place the Protestant Church in a position not of equality with the Roman Catholic Church, but of inferiority to it; for the patronage was now directly or indirectly vested in the Crown, and its supremacy secured uniformity of doctrine and ritual; whereas if this measure passed there would be nothing to prevent the clergy from drifting into ritualistic or other extremes. The Roman Catholic Church, on the contrary, had a central authority at Rome. The Protestant clergy—2,200 in number, with an average income of £175—were necessarily resident, and formed an invaluable link between the yeomanry and the landowners, the withdrawal of which would greatly intensify the evils of absenteeism. The Protestant population, moreover of the South and West would be unable, scattered as they were, to maintain the fabrics, or support their clergy in a becoming manner. The churches, indeed, had already been claimed for the Roman Catholics by  The Freeman's Journal, Regium Donum, 1495 Nonconformist "He who would England win With Ireland must begin." 1496
 MR. PIM  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he intends to introduce his measures respecting the Land Question in Ireland; and when he expects that the "Electoral Statistics" for Ireland, ordered on Monday, 23rd March, will be laid upon the Table?
 MR. PIM  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he expects to introduce the Bill for the extension to Ireland of the facilities which are afforded to England and Scotland by the Local Government (England) Act, 1858, and the General Police and Improvement (Scotland) Act, 1862?
 MR. MARSH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the fact of the Wiltshire Magistrates having decided to make Devizes Gaol the only gaol in the county; whether he is aware that malignant typhus exists in that gaol; and, whether he will send down an Inspector of the Board of Health to report whether Devizes Gaol is fit to be the only gaol in the county?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  paid, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, in the temporary absence of the Chief Justice of Bombay, a civilian member of the Court has been appointed to fill his place; if so, whether any special reasons exist for the preference of a civilian to a Barrister Judge; and, whether any Despatches have been sent by the India Board to the Government of Bombay on this subject; and, if so, whether he has any objection to lay those Despatches upon the Table of the House?
 MR. MORE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home De-
 1462
 MR. EYKYN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government, in consequence of the barbarous murder that recently took place in the county of Westmeath, to apply to Parliament for extension of their powers under the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, so as to enable them to adopt against Ribbonism and Agrarian Outrage, the same course that has been so successfully adopted for the suppression of Fenianism in Ireland?
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Commission appointed by the Treasury to inquire into the grievances of Customs Officers in London has made its Report; and, if it is intended to extend the investigation to the outports, when the inquiry may be expected to commence?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would ask permission of the House to allow him to speak for a few moments on a matter personal to himself. He found that Dr. Magee, the Protestant Dean of Cork, had complained of a statement attributed to him (Mr. Monsell) with regard to the burial-ground of Enniskillen. He begged to state that he made no statement with regard to the Enniskillen burial-ground, but to a place called Pubble. The facts were—that the graveyard of Pubble was about a mile from the Protestant Church; that for the last twenty-six years the burial service of the Established Church had not been celebrated therein more than five times; that Roman Catholics had no other available burying-place than that of Pubble within a circuit of not less than ten miles; that, notwithstanding, the Rev. T. C. Maude, rector of the parish in 1848, prohibited the Roman Catholic priests from officiating at Pubble graveyard; that the Rev. Dr. Magee, who succeeded Mr. Maude as rector, was requested by a lay Roman Catholic parishioner to remove the veto of his predecessor, and permit the Roman Catholic parishioners to have the privilege of Christian interment. This request Dr. Magee held under consideration for some time, but ultimately refused to communicate further on the subject with the applicant. Dr. Magee had also impugned the statement which he had made in a recent debate on the Irish Burials Bill, to the effect that the very rev. gentleman had declined to allow Roman Catholics to be buried in a graveyard at Enniskillen according to the rites of their religion. He begged to say that he had made the statement on the authority of a petition, to
 1455
 MR. MONSELL  said, he rose to ask, When the Report of the Irish Railway Commission would be laid on the Table of the House?
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, it appeared to him that if there were six items in a Vote four of which were unexceptionable, and exceptions were taken to the two remaining items, and on a division on the latter items the Government gained a narrow majority, and if afterwards a reduction of the whole Vote was moved and carried, it would be extremely undesirable that the items which had not been objected to should have to be reduced, while those to which exception had been taken must necessarily be left in their entirety.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that though the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire (the Marquess of Hartington) had congratulated the House that there was less of personality in the discussion this evening than on the previous night, and that the arguments had been more addressed to the subject-matter of debate, it was to be regretted that the noble Lord had not himself adhered to that course of proceeding. After indulging in some personalities, good-humouredly, no doubt, against the right hon. Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), the noble Lord, while urging the House to use the weapons of argument, and to cast aside bitterness, had imported into the latter part of his speech the most bitter personality ["No!"] When it was objected that the Resolutions were vague, the noble Lord asked their opponents to meet him in matters of detail. Now he (Mr. Mowbray) was under the impression that objections in detail had been very strongly urged in a previous discussion by the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, and by the right hon. Gentle-
 1513 1514 1515 Regium Donum 1516 "Concordes animæ nune, et dum nocte premuntur, Heu quantum inter se bellum, si lumina vitæ Attigerint, quantas acies stragemque ciebunt." 1517 alter ego, 1518
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I cannot tell exactly the number of women and children that have suffered. The last account is that the women and children have suffered more than the men; I will be prepared to give a more exact Answer on Thursday.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that only one death had occurred among the men of the 86th Regiment, although there had been a great deal of sickness.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied that he could only repeat the Answer which he had given to a similar Question some time ago, as far as the first part of the hon. Member's Question was concerned. He had taken no measures for the removal of the 86th Regiment from the Mauritius beyond those which he had already communicated to the House—namely, that he had given authority to the officer in command in the Mauritius to remove the troops whenever the state of the health in the island might render such a course advisable, a question upon which he could not of course at such a distance give any decision. The instructions sent out referred also to others, for the 32nd Regiment and other troops were also stationed there. His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief had sent out instructions that a strict investigation should be made into the reasons for permitting the troops to land, in disregard of the warning of the local authorities, and as the hon. Member would see, he could not give any further answer to the Question until that Report had been made.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that the original custom was as stated by the hon. and gallant Member. Latterly it had been decided to manufacture, and repair the machinery by contract, but it was now under consideration whether it would not be wiser to revert to the former practice.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he would not commit himself to the exact expressions used in the paragraph the hon. Member had quoted from  The Times, 1457
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was.
 MR. PEASE  said, he believed that hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House were fully aware of the meaning and purport of these Resolutions. Among the many extraordinary arguments that had been put forward in defence of the Church Establishment in Ireland, none had astonished him more than that which fell from that very good Churchman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Gorst), when he declared that the Church of England held its place in the affections of the people because it was a democratic Church, in which rich and poor worshipped together. But the same argument applied with equal force to every other Christian body in this country. If he were advocating the claims of the Church of England, he should base them on such grounds as those stated by Hampden, who said on his death-bed, that he believed the doctrines of the Church of England were for the most part consonant with the words of Holy Scripture. He was very much surprised to hear it said that, on bringing forward this Resolution, the right hon. Member for South Lancashire was acting in a manner inconsistent with his previous character; for though he was aware that the right hon. Gentleman had published a certain book many years ago, he had always understood, and the men of the North of England understood, that when the right hon. Gentleman was turned out of his seat for the University, it was not because he was unsound in regard to the English Church, but because he was considered unsound in regard to the Irish Church, and would reduce the franchise lower than was desired by his then constituents. The hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) had brought down an old well-thumbed copy of the book of the right hon. Gentleman, and quoted two or three passages; but the hon. Member forgot to remind that House that the book had been reviewed by a most eminent statesman—Lord Macaulay. At the close of that review there was a passage which he (Mr. Pease) begged to read to the House—
 "But if there were in any part of the world a
 1484 1485
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, the Chief Justice of Bombay had taken a short leave of sbsence; and upon the occasion of his absenting himself the post of Acting Chief Justice was, in the first instance, offered to the senior Barrister Judge, Sir Joseph Arnold, by whom it was declined. It was then offered to the next senior Judge, Mr. Newton, who, he believed, was a very competent person; and accepted. He was not aware of the reasons for appointing a civilian to the post, except that he was next in seniority. He had no objection to the production of the Papers asked for, and would produce also a despatch written some years ago, on a similar occasion, by Sir Charles Wood.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire had exercised a very wise discretion
 1467 1468 1469 1470
 VISCOUNT ROYSTON  said, that in addressing the Committee upon this important question, he trusted they would treat him with leniency, considering that he had only once before trespassed upon their attention. Upon so important a question as that before them, he thought the fullest opportunity ought to be afforded to the representatives of the various classes and interests in that House of expressing their own opinions, as well as those of their respective constituencies. From the first moment of the broaching of this proposition by the right hon. Gentleman, he (Viscount
 1486 1487 1488 1489 1490 Laughter. 1491 Laughter. Regium Donum? Laughter. Laughter 1492
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he had little confidence in Parliamentary efforts to reform joint-stock company management. Everything that had hitherto been done to provide facilities for the shareholders to detect fraud or irregularity in their companies had been systematically neglected. And this had not arisen so much from want of light or knowledge as from wilful shutting of eyes. The extraordinary fascination of a large rate of interest was stronger than the wisest counsel; and nothing but bitter experience seemed to
 1542 The Times "Another ruinous financial collapse is due in the year '67, and we have every reason to believe the preliminaries are already adjusted."
 LORD HENLEY  said, he did not deny the right of ratepayers to some control over county expenditure; but he thought it was not correct to say that, at present, they had no control whatever. The items, though not the details, of that expenditure were fixed by Acts of Parliament, and in the passing of those Acts the ratepayers had a voice. The county rate in his own county for current expenditure was only 4 d. s. s., s. d. s., d.
 MR. BRUCE  said, he had understood the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld) to desire the adoption of the representative principle, the machinery by which it was effected being a matter of detail. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Secretary of State for the Home Department) had pointed out weighty objections to the machinery of this Bill; and he doubted whether it would be possible to reconcile the functions of the justices and those of the proposed Board. He thought it would be much better to send the whole question to a Select Committee than to have a Select Committee on the Bill itself. The result of sending this Bill, with its 140 clauses, to a Select Committee would be that all legislation on the matter would be postponed till another Bill was framed; because he thought the opinion of the Committee would be that the measure now before the House was impracticable. It might be said that it was important to have the principle of the Bill affirmed by reading it a second time. He doubted, however, whether one word would be said against the principle of the Bill. On the contrary, he believed that the tone of the discussion on the second reading would be equivalent to an affirmation of the principle of the Bill. Under these circumstances, he would recommend his hon. Friend the Member for Bodmin to accept the offer of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He was afraid that, at present, the finance business of counties was got through in a rather hurried manner at Quarter Sessions; and, as it could no
 1551
 MR. HENLEY  said, the feeling out-of-doors was strongly in favour of inquiry into this subject, as the number of petitions presented every year in reference to it proved. He concurred with the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken in thinking that it might be more satisfactory to the body of the ratepayers to give them a direct representation in the body to which the county finances were intrusted; but there were difficulties in the matter which this Bill did not meet, while it would give rise to other difficulties. He thought that under this Bill they would not get responsible persons to be visitors of gaols and lunatic asylums. It certainly seemed to have been drawn with great care; but how could the prisons and lunatic asylums be managed by persons not conversant with those places? [ A laugh.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that so far as his own experience or observation went, the privilege of county magistrates to look; after the county expenditure might be looked upon in the light of a  damnosa hereditas. d.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  approving the principle of the Bill, and not desiring the subject to be shelved, hoped the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Bill and that the House would unanimously assent to the proposal of the Government. He could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Bruce), that the business at Quarter Sessions was usually transacted hurriedly. In the county with which he was connected, at all events, the greatest possible attention was paid to the county business and expenditure. He was likewise unable to concur in the remark of the right hon. Gentleman, that other property than land paid the greater portion of the rates. He hoped, indeed, that such a state of things would soon exist, but he feared that it did not at present. "The wish was father to the thought." In the counties with which he was acquainted the land and houses bore all the large and daily increasing burdens borne by parochial and county rates. It had been said by the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Read), that the dual principle had been found to work well wherever it was applied. But though it might do so in the case of Boards of Guardians, Cattle Plague Boards, Highway Boards and the like, it might not do so in the case to which it was now sought to apply it. It must be remembered that while the ratepayers were for the most part irresponsible persons, the magistrates were responsible for the peace of the county, for the safe custody of prisoners, and for the care of lunatics, as well as for the buildings; and they must see that the proper amount of money was spent for those purposes.
 MR. BROMLEY-DAVENPORT  said, he hoped the House would not attribute any weight whatever to the remarks just made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had but just entered the House, and, consequently, had not heard the discussion.
 MR. BROMLEY-DAVENPORT  said, he thought it an unfortunate thing that the unanimity of the House should be disturbed by remarks like those which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman. It was agreed on all hands that the Bill was good in principle, but that it was not in working trim, and therefore the proposition made by the Government had been almost unanimously acceded to.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that having spent some time in the examination of the Bill, he had come to the conclusion that its provisions were unworkable. The hon. and learned Gentleman was proceeding to explain, by reference to the interpretation clause and other clauses, the difficulties which would arise with regard to the terms "lessee" and "owner" when—
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , referring to the clause moved by the hon. Baronet, said, that in the present state of the Bill it only made the confusion in the Bill worse confounded.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, this Bill had passed through a Select Committee, and on two occasions had occupied
 1566
 MR. BRUCE  said, he had no doubt that the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works had strictly redeemed his pledge, and that the Attorney General had correctly stated the defects of the Bill as regarded freeholders and successive leaseholders. He hoped that in any conference which might take place something more than the strict law of the question would be considered, and that policy would be also taken into account. His own opinion was that persons who had allowed their property to get into a state which was detrimental to the health of the population were not entitled to the same consideration as those who had not been guilty of such laches.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the recommendation that more time should be given for the consideration of one or two clauses was very reasonable. The hon. Member who had brought in the Bill knew that he (Mr. Henley) had done what he could to get the measure through. But the subject was very difficult, and it must be recollected that this year the Bill had not met with any unreasonable delay, but had gone through its stages very quickly. It should also be borne in mind that, with any measure which touched property, it was far better to take time so as to put the clauses into shape than to run the risk of the Bill foundering in "another place" on a matter of that kind. The hon. Gentleman knew what trouble the Select Committee had with the subject, and how one scheme after another was put by; and he would be well advised to allow these clauses to be well considered, so that there might be no difficulty afterwards in the working of the Bill. It would be ten times more likely to do good if they did not offend the prejudices of people who might be affected by the measure. It was easier to lead people than to drive them; and if they saw that their interests had not been neglected they would be much more likely to give their assistance in carrying out the Bill.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that the difficulties connected with the question were so great that if attention was confined to technicalities it would be impossible to pass any Bill at all on the subject. The measure was one to which the people of
 1568
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, that
 1548 ex officio
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that when this Bill was last discussed the understanding on the part of the Government was that the Law Advisers of the Crown should be requested to consider the particular question then raised. The Attorney General had endeavoured to state the result of that consideration to-day. The pledge given by the Government had therefore been strictly carried out. The Government were really anxious that a Bill of this public importance should pass into law; but of course it could only be on the understanding that it was properly framed to effect the object it had in view. He would suggest that the debate should be adjourned, not with the object of defeating a Bill in which the Government felt an interest, but in order that the Attorney General might confer with the framers of the measure and try to amend it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to remind the House that, very early in the discussions on the Bill, he had pointed out that it was full of technical obscurities affecting the rights of real property, and that it would be absolutely necessary that the clauses which dealt with that subject should be very carefully revised by some competent conveyancer. He thought the Government had only done their duty in the course which they had taken.
 MR. AYRTON  denied that the hon. Gentleman was justified in saying that he had thrown cold water on the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  moved the adjournment of the debate in order that the preliminary question might be considered, whether in its present form this Bill should be allowed to pass? There was an understanding when the Bill was last before the House, that the Government would make inquiry and satisfy themselves whether the Bill would work. The Attorney General ought to be put in order, for the purpose of making that explanation.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when the Bill was last before the House, the Government promised to examine its provisions and satisfy themselves whether it would work satisfactorily. He would be glad to know from the Attorney General, whether that examination had been made, and if so, what was the result?
 MR. NEWDEGATE , in rising, remarked upon the absence of all the Members of the Government, and said, that the Bill embodied a principle which the House had affirmed. Another measure upon the same subject had been sent up to the House of Lords, and was, it appeared, to be referred to a Select Committee. He should be glad if the House would consent to allow his Bill to go before a similar tribunal, having good reason to think it would bear the examination of a Committee of the House of Lords. In the present state of that House (there were only a few Members present), he thought that the best thing he could do—considering the determination manifested by a majority of the House to disestablish the Church in Ireland, and in other ways to curtail the property of the United Churches of England and Ireland — was simply to move that the Order of the Day for the second reading of his Bill be postponed until tomorrow.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Wyld) was entitled to have the principle of the Bill verified in the ordinary way. If that were done it might then be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. READ  said, he was glad that so much unanimity was shown in the House in favour of the old constitutional principle that taxation and representation should go together. Allowing the Courts of Quarter Sessions to levy a rate was as objectionable in principle, as it would be to allow the House of Lords to tax the country. As to the dual principle, he would state, as far as his own experience went, that the magistrates and elected members worked very harmoniously together. They were told, as an argument against his Bill, that the landlord paid all the rates. That might be very good in theory, but it certainly was not entirely so in practice; for if 50 per cent were deducted from the poor rates the landlords might soon come to claim the advantage of it; yet if 1 d. d. 1553
 MR. M'LAREN  entreated hon. Gentlemen to enter into this question in a large and conciliatory spirit. The town clerk of Liverpool, who had been examined before the Select Committee, had stated that the Bill would be of inestimable advantage to that great city. He knew several other great towns to which it would be of the greatest benefit.
 MR. GREENE  said, he agreed with those who thought that the policy of the Bill should be assumed. The main object was the improvement of the sanitary condition of the poor, and he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Merthyr Tidfil (Mr. Bruce) in thinking that men who had neglected their property to the injury of the public health were not deserving of the consideration to which others were entitled. He had observed that though the hon. Members for Marylebone (Mr. Harvey Lewis) and the Tower
 1569
 COLONEL FRENCH  opposed the Motion. The Bill was an attempt to interfere with Her Majesty's Prerogative, and a violation of the agreement made between the two countries at the time of the Union. The same proposal was made by his hon. and learned Friend last Session, though then in the form of a Resolution instead of a Bill. He had not heard from his hon. and learned Friend—either on that occasion or on this—any sufficient reason for the change. His hon. and learned Friend proposed to amalgamate the English and Irish Peerages, but the two Peerages were totally distinct. Many of the Irish Peers owned no land in this country, and had no ties connecting them with England; and he did not see why they should become English Peers. On the other hand, there were many distinguished Irishmen who had a claim to the Peerage of their own country, but none whatever to the Peerage of this country. Though some of the objections urged by the hon. and learned Baronet to the present state of things with regard to the Irish Peerage were sound and ought to be considered by the Government, he (Colonel French) did not think that this endeavour to abolish the Irish Peerage would meet with approval in Ireland, and he was surprised to find an Irishman proposing such a measure. He hoped the Government would give no support or encouragement to the Bill, and he moved that it be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was about to ask the same question. He believed that the practice was settled, and that, though this Bill might go up to the last stage without receiving the Royal assent, it could not go beyond that stage. He did not think it was a measure that was at all pressing in its character; and could not undertake to advise Her Majesty's assent to its progress. Considering, therefore, the great pressure of other and more important business, he appealed to the hon. and learned Baronet not to proceed with it.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that in 1853 a Bill, similar to the present, was referred to a Select Committee, but nothing resulted from it. He now proposed that an inquiry should be made into the whole subject, in order that the Government might have the information necessary to enable them to bring forward a satisfactory measure.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he could not possibly pledge himself and the Government as to what should be done. He presumed the Committee would inquire into the subject, and, when they had reported, the Government would be able to consider the question thoroughly. The views of the Committee and those of the Government might not be in accordance, or the Committee might be in direct opposition to the hon. Member.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that, while of opinion that much of the feeling which had been shown of late years on this subject was due to misconception, he admitted that that feeling was entitled to consideration. As had been already pointed out, a great number of items of county expenditure depended on Acts of Parliament, the justices having control only over the details. The expenditure on gaols, lunatic asylums, and police, for instance, was imposed by statute, and the only question was, whether in any case magistrates sanctioned excessive expenditure. Now, he believed that, in the main, great judgment and economy were displayed, and in the county with which he was acquainted the Finance Committee devoted an enormous amount of labour and time to their task, checking the expenditure as efficiently as any other machinery which could be devised. He could see no advantage in referring the present Bill to a Select Committee. In the first place, it was a permissive one, and he thought such legislation should be discouraged. That House was at least as capable, as were the guardians of the poor, of arriving at a conclusion as to whether any change ought to be introduced into the system of managing the affairs of counties; and if such a change was to be made it was, in his opinion, desirable that it should be introduced by the direct authority of that House. Moreover,
 1549 1550 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the present mode of conducting the financial Arrangements of the Counties in England and Wales, and whether any alteration ought to be made either in the persons by whom or in the manner in which such arrangements are now conducted."
 MR. CLIVE  said, he thought that County Boards should be elective, but that they should consist of few members, as that would be more conducive to economy—the great object of the Bill. He differed from his right hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr (Mr. Bruce). He thought that, as a rule, the finance business of counties was not conducted in a hurried manner. But he believed the difference could be accounted for in this way, that his right hon. Friend was chiefly connected with a manufacturing; county, while the county with which he (Mr. Clive) was connected was purely agricultural. He objected to many of the details of the Bill, and he believed one advantage in sending it to a Select Committee would be, that it would be rendered much shorter.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he thought it unfortunate that the objections now raised by the Attorney General had not been made at an earlier period, before so much time was bestowed on the consideration of the details of the Bill. He felt bound to say in defence of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. M'Cullagh Torrens) that he was over-ruled in Committee on the point of allowing the parishes to carry out the Bill. The reason why the City was excepted was because in the City the works required had been done, and no less than £84,000 had been spent on the dwellings of the poor. He challenged the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) to point out any district in the metropolis which had done the same. He would say boldly that the parishes were not as competent to deal with the subject as the City; for the parish authorities had been only ten years in existence, while the City authorities had existed for hundreds of years. He hoped if the Bill was to be re-considered its principle would be taken as settled.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he understood that the last Speaker was opposed to the principle of the Bill. [Mr. SCOURFIELD: No.] The recommendation of the Secretary of State, that the general subject should be investigated by a Select Committee, was but a courteous way of shelving the Bill altogether. No question had ever been so frequently discussed, and under so many forms, as the present. The grievance had been spoken of as a sentimental one, but he was sure it was a practical grievance as well. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would re-consider the matter, and allow this Bill to go before a Select Committee.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that whatever the views of the Government were, the metropolis was, in the main, opposed to the Bill. Not that any indifference was felt to the improvement of the dwellings of artizans, but it was thought that this Bill would not effect the object, in view. The parishes had no confidence in the Metropolitan Board of Works, which was charged with carrying out the Bill, and they did not see why the City of London should be excepted from its operation. He could tell the House that, at the present moment, there was a notorious bill discounter who was buying up, on speculation, those houses with which the Bill would have to deal, in order to sell them again. Unless not only legal but substantial alterations were made in the Bill he should vote against it.
 MR. WYLD  said, there had been a unanimous expression of opinion in favour of the principle of the Bill, though several Members had pointed out that some of the details were faulty — an objection always made when a measure was introduced by a private Member. He
 1559
 MR. WYLD , in rising to move that the Bill be now read the second time, said, that the subject had occupied the attention of the Legislature during the past thirty years, and had been reported on by Select Committees of both Houses of Parliament, and by Royal Commissions, in every case to the effect that ratepayers should have some control over the expenditure of County Boards. This opinion had been supported by many statesmen of acknowledged wisdom. Sir Robert Peel stated that—
 "He should admit, what he was prepared to admit, that the representative system should to a certain extent be adopted in the administration of the county funds." "In the county with which he was connected the county rate had risen from £77,000 in 1823, to £175,000 in 1848, and it did seem an anomaly that such a sum should be assessed by the local magistrates without the control of the ratepayers." 1543 "That some check founded on popular election, and consisting of ratepayers acting with the magistrates, was now necessary and ought to be established." "Wished it to be understood that he had never expressed an opinion against the ratepayers having a control over the expenditure, if a right system could be chalked out." "He begged to state that he did not object to the principle of establishing popular control over county expenditure." "That, at the beginning of the next Session, Her Majesty's Government would propose to Parliament such measures as they might think fit, founded on the principle of popular representation as regards the administration of county affairs." "It was said in reference to this measure, that the magistrates of England, who exercised this irresponsible power were the great proprietors, and had the greatest interest in the expenditure of the county rate; and that, therefore, it was perfectly sale to allow them to regulate that expenditure to which they themselves most largely contributed, without the check of popular representation. That seemed to him to be a very odd argument to use in the House of Commons. Why, on the very same ground, they might entrust the taxation of the whole country to the House of Lords without any interference from the representatives of the people. The House of Lords consisted generally of the large landed proprietors of the country. They, therefore, it might be said,
 1544 Hansard, 
 
 £ s. d. £ s. d. 
 1864 17,156 17 8 per cent 1 17 10 
 1865 18,843 5 11 per cent 2 1 7 
 1866 25,059 13 5 per cent 2 15 3 
 County of Derby— 
 1863–4 15,883 2 5 per cent 1 7 1 
 1864–5 14,490 12 5 per cent 1 5 4 
 1865–6 16,053 8 8 per cent 1 7 5 
 County of Lancaster— 
 1863 119,753 0 0 per cent 1 14 8 
 1864 111,979 0 0 per cent 1 12 5 
 1865 135,097 0 0 per cent 1 19 1 
 County of Northampton— 
 1864 9,957 10 7 per cent 1 1 10½ 
 1865 11,834 6 10 per cent 1 6 0½ 
 1866 12,802 13 5 per cent 1 8 1½ 1545 Vict., 1546
 MR. CANDLISH  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. M'Cullagh Torrens) had misapprehended the object of the Attorney General, who did not wish to defeat the Bill, but only took exception to its machinery. It was most important for the proper working of the measure that its machinery should be as perfect as possible.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman is quite correct in stating that, according to the practice of Parliament, a measure to limit the Prerogative of the Crown could not pass a third reading, unless the consent of the Crown had first been obtained.
 MR. SPEAKER  ruled, that the question at present being, whether this particular clause should pass, a general argument could hardly be allowed upon that question.
 MR. SPEAKER  interposed, and remarked that this was not the time for the hon. Member to discuss the question of the Bill going to a Select Committee. That could only be considered when the Bill had been read a second time.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  seconded the Motion for adjourning the debate. He thought it a loss of time to discuss the Bill as it stood.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, the Bill was a hastily drawn one, which would be likely to do harm instead of good. He bogged leave to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. REBOW  said, he wished to point out that assessment committees in counties were most useful bodies; and that under the Bill there would be great difficulty in
 1552
 MR. KENDALL , in seconding the Motion, said, he hoped the Bill would be referred to a Select Committee. His own experience led him to believe that much discontent existed with regard to the manner in which county matters were managed; not that blame was imputed to the justices, but that the system was held to be faulty. Nine-tenths of the ratepayers had no control over the application of the rates. It sometimes happened that after a farmer had taken a lease at a certain rental, extraordinary outlay on prisons, lunatic asylums, or police stations led to a serious increase in the county rate, and the farmer was thus saddled with much heavier burdens than he had calculated upon. He did not say that such outlay was unwisely incurred; but when it was sanctioned by an irresponsible body complaints naturally arose. Very huge powers were possessed by the visiting justices of lunatic asylums; they could double the staff or the salaries, and even the magistrates in Quarter Sessions often could not interfere. For his own part, he devoted much labour and care to county expenditure, and he believed; his fellow-justices did the same; but it was impossible to convince the ratepayers that they were not entitled to a voice in that expenditure. While approving the principle of the Bill, and thanking the
 1547
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would divide the House, in which event he should certainly follow him into the Lobby. It appeared to him that the Government were simply trifling with the question. The Leaders on either side of the House were wont to give advice to independent Members, and why should not the latter occasionally give advice to their Leaders? For his own part, he did not care either for his Leader or his party. He had independent opinions of his own, and always expressed them; and in the present instance he clearly thought the House ought to divide on the second reading. He had never been a magistrate, and had no desire to be one as long as magistrates were unpaid. The magistrates might generally do their business pretty well; though he confessed that, looking at certain recent appointments, they were not exactly the sort of persons he should like to trust. At all events, the ratepayers naturally wished to have some control over the application of their own money. What was the use of introducing Bills if those who had charge of them did not divide upon them. He should support the second reading, if it were only to show the Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench that they
 1558
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  remarked, that he had been in the House for an hour and a quarter.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  was dissatisfied with the answer of the Home Secretary, and insisted upon a division.
 MR. THOMAS PAGET  said, there were two points which he considered to be highly objectionable in the Bill. The first was the permissive clause, and the second was the placing the representation in the hands of those who were themselves representatives of others. The elections, he thought, ought in every case to be directly made by those who were interested in the question. He therefore thought it wiser that the hon. Member should withdraw his Bill on the understanding that the whole subject should be taken up by a Committee. But he should feel bound to support the hon. Member if he proceeded to a division.
 MR. BARROW  said, he took a very strong interest in this subject, because he felt that taxation and representation ought to go together. He brought, this subject before the House some fifteen years ago, and it was not well received. Since that time it had slept, but it now found general approval. The best mode of procedure would be to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, for nobody disputed the principle of it.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he also was glad to see so decided an agreement in the principle of the Bill. He hoped his hon. Friend would accept the offer made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He knew that in doing so his hon. Friend would be making a great sacrifice, now that a general assent was given to the principle of his Bill. But he hoped his hon. Friend would see that in this way he was more likely to attain the object he had in view; for it was now plain that no Bill would pass through Parliament this year; and if the question were ever to be properly settled it must be taken up by the Government of the country. With regard to what had been said by the hon. Member for Hereford (Mr. Clive), though he (Mr. W. E. Forster) did not represent an agricultural constituency, he represented a borough which, not having a separate Quarter Sessions, was rated by the county magistrates; and he was of opinion that the time had come when they must apply self-government, as regarded local affairs, to counties as well as to boroughs. For his part, he would rather deal even with the mistakes of elected bodies than with the most common sense arrangements issued from the Home Office; because in the former case the feelings of the people would be with the Board. He trusted the result of this debate would be, not only to refer this Bill to a Select Committee, but that various other questions in connection with it would receive full consideration. He did not believe that, by any change that might be made, they would get a better or more economical expenditure than they had from the county magistrates. He believed that under an elective system they would have the same men to regulate these affairs, but with more power
 1554
 MAJOR PARKER  said, he did not deny the expediency of forming Financial Boards, but he wished to say that, whether the power of arranging county finances remained,
 1556
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that in rising to move that the Bill be now read the second time, he wished to state its provisions and to explain the principles
 1560 1561 ipso facto, 1562 1563
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that if the Government had determined not to advise Her Majesty to assent to this measure, it was useless to proceed to a division. He had been more anxious to bring the matter forward than to press the second reading; and, hoping that in the new Parliament it would meet with more success, he would for the present withdraw it.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  moved the insertion of a clause providing that the Act should not apply to cases in which the freeholder had successfully instituted
 1565 Sir Francis Goldsmid, brought up,
 MR. POWELL  said, that in justice to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, he must state it was an entire misconception to suppose that he was hostile to the Bill. At a late hour last night he had had a conference with his hon. and learned Friend, who expressed himself friendly to the general principle of the measure, but raised considerable objections to points of detail. If anyone
 1567
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  rose to order—
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the House ought to hear from the Speaker whether a Bill of this sort, which directly limited the Prerogative of the Crown, could be entertained without the assent of the Crown.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that in order to give his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State an opportunity of again addressing the House, he would formally move for the appointment of a Select Committee.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he would offer no objection to the second reading of the Bill, the principle of which was similar to that of the measure introduced into the House last year. The position this year was, however, somewhat different. The Government had, already introduced a Bill into the other House of Parliament for the regulation of railways, and in that Bill they had largely availed themselves of the provisions of his right hon. Friend's measure. There were, however, a few salient points upon which the Government had taken a view different from that of the right hon. Gentleman. One point was, the Government had confined themselves to railway companies exclusively. He thought that in any tentative measure of that kind, it would be wise for the House to try the experiment upon a certain number of companies before embarking in the serious operation of legislating for all the limited companies in the country. There was a difference in principle between railway companies and ordinary limited companies. Very few of the latter had compulsory powers granted them by Parliament — a characteristic which alone would warrant Parliamentary interference in the internal concerns of railway companies. There were many thousands of limited companies in the country, and the form of accounts suitable to one description of company would be quite unsuitable to another, so that it would be next to impossible to prescribe a form that would apply to all. And a variety of other considerations showed how necessary it would be to limit the operation of a Bill like that before the House, at least for the present, and until opinion had been tested by experience. In the Act of 1862 there was a particular form recommended to joint-stock companies. By that Act it was provided that upon a requisition signed by two-fifths of the shareholders of any joint-stock company, an application might be made for a Government inspection of the accounts of the company. But that power had only in one instance been taken advantage of, and in that instance the time for an inspection was past, for the company was being wound up in Chancery. This showed how difficult it was to move shareholders to take advantage of arrangements
 1540 1541
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said that was undoubtedly so, but the Secretary of State for the Home Department had already stated the course he meant to take with regard to his Motion when it came forward. However, for the purpose of the present argument, he would simply assume that the Secretary of State might decide
 1557
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, that though he gave his assent to the proposal before the House, he did so most unwillingly, and he regretted the course that had been taken. The Secretary of State for the Home Department had informed him the other day that he could not consent to refer his Bill to a Select Committee, because it had not been printed. He (Sir William Gallwey) could not disguise from himself the fact that the House might almost be said to be a body of magistrates, and they seemed to think that a question affecting the interests of ratepayers might be postponed for any length of time. There was a strong feeling out of doors, among those who were deeply interested in the matter, that it ought to be dealt with as soon as possible. He was unable to discern any reason why the Select Committee should not make his and his hon. Friend's Bill the basis of its investigations.
 SIR WILLIAM HUTT , in rising to move that the Bill be now read the second time, said, he thought it unnecessary to make reference to statistics for the purpose of showing that, in the last few years, the affairs of many railway and joint-stock companies had been in a disastrous position—disastrous not only to the shareholders themselves, but to the country and the general interests of the public. That calamitous state of things had directly resulted from the system of management under which the companies were formed?—a system which was vicious in itself and in many cases most disgracefully carried out. It was therefore, he thought, absolutely necessary that Parliament should interpose to prevent, if possible, the recurrences
 1536 1537 1538
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether it is correct that in the Form of Tender issued by the Admiralty for Coals to be supplied to Her Majesty's Dockyards for the year commencing May 1868, for the use of the Steam Vessels in the Navy, the only Coals named therein are those from Wales; if so, why, after the Reports made at Devonport, and the recommendations contained therein, as to the use of North Country Coals in Her Majesty's ships of war, these have been excluded?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman is quite correct in his statement; the Admiralty have this year reverted to the policy of supplying nothing but smokeless coal to steam vessels in the navy. This decision was arrived at in consequence of the strong representations received by them from the Commanders in Chief of the foreign squadrons, setting forth the great advantages possessed by the smokeless coals for all purposes of steam navigation: I may tell the right hon. Gentleman that bituminous coal is still on the Admiralty list, and is largely used for dockyard purposes.
 LORD OTHO FITZGERALD  said, he also wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, with reference to the "Piling Obstructions in the River" mentioned in the Question of the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmund's, If he would reply to the same query with reference to a much more formidable obstruction of the same nature that reaches full half-way across the River opposite Battersea Park, and has there existed for a much longer period?
 SIR FOWELL BUXTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the Sultan of Zanzibar has lately offered to make any arrangements for the suppression of the Slave Trade between that island and the mainland; if any conditions were attached to his offer; and, if it has or has not been accepted by Her Majesty's Government; and, if not, for what reasons?
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that if the hon. Member would refer to the State Papers published this year, pp. 112–114, he would find a full statement of the offer which had been made by the Sultan of Zanzibar, and of the conditions that accompanied them. Those proposals were still under consideration. Her Majesty's Government were fully aware of the desirableness of that offer, having in view the suppression of the Slave Trade. There were several questions, partly of policy and partly of good faith, to which it was impossible to shut their eyes, and which would, therefore, receive due attention at the India Office. A reference had been made of the whole question to the Government in India, but no answer had yet been received.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I confess—I am stating my own opinion—it appears to me that a Question of this kind is well fitted for the hon. Gentleman if he pleases to produce it in a speech, but wholly unfitted to be directed to me. I may have been aware of these things. ["Oh, oh!"] I shall only say that I do not think it would be convenient for me to set the example of saying whether I was aware of that or not. It is enough for me to say that I believe I described that body with perfect accuracy as the non-subscribing Presbytery of Antrim, recipients of the  Regium Donum.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I own that I am quite at a loss to say anything of the courtesy of the hon. Gentleman in putting to me this Question without giving me notice. I am quite at a loss to comprehend its meaning. The Presbytery of Antrim,
 1582
 MR. FREVILLE SURTEES  moved, "That the Oath taken by Roman Catholic Members previous to the alteration of the Oath on the 30th of April, 1866, be read by the Clerk at the Table."
 MR. GLADSTONE : Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose the Motion.
 MR. FREVILLE SURTEES : You, Sir, have ruled that the Roman Catholic Members who took the Oath before the 30th of April, 1866, are bound by the Oath taken by Roman Catholic Members previously to that time, I beg to withdraw my Motion. ["No, no!"]
 MR. FREVILLE SURTEES : I apprehend that the Oath taken in 1865 by those Members who did then take it is still binding.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Then I oppose the question upon its merits. I was so far sensible of the point raised by my right hon. Friend (Mr. Bouverie) that I did intend before proceeding to say anything to satisfy myself by a reference to you, Sir, that I am not interfering with a known and undoubted privilege of Members of this House. But it is the policy of this Motion to which I rise to object. My right hon. Friend has justly stated that this Oath is part of a law not now in force. Under such circumstances, it is enough for me, I think, to say that there is not the presumptive title to the reading of it at the table which there would be if it were a Law actually in force. And if there be no such presumptive title, and I am to ask myself with what object this Motion is made, and what good it can possibly produce if it were read, it appears to me to be only an
 1583
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON , while complimenting the noble Lord who had just sat down on the liberality of his speech and the fair manner in which he had treated the arguments of his opponents, was surprised that the noble Lord should have arrived at the determination of supporting a measure the results of which he admitted to be so very doubtful. He did not see why solemn compacts made with the Irish Protestants and their ancestors should now be broken. He could not see why the Established Church in Ireland was not only to be swept away, but insulted and reviled as if it had been a source of injustice. If these arrangements had been made by the Irish Parliament, and
 1615 1616 bonâ fide 1617 The Tablet 1618 1619 1620
 SIR JOHN HAY : Mr. Dodson—I should be sorry if this debate were to close without some one rising to express the views which I confidently believe are held by my countrymen North of the Tweed. I am far from assuming that I can speak with any sort of authority; but connected as I am with Scotland, and knowing as I do the great interest felt by many on this subject, I shall ask the indulgence of the Committee for a few minutes whilst I state, so far as I know it, the feeling entertained on this subject in Scotland. In Scotland there exists a strong religious sentiment, and that religious sentiment is expressed in general by various forms of Presbyterian worship. Three principal bodies exist, with no difference whatever in creed, and only slightly differing in forms of Church government. First, the Established Kirk; second, the Free Kirk; third, the United Presbyterian Kirk. These three Churches, and the less numerous Presbyterian Churches which exist in Scotland, as well as a large proportion of the members of the Scotch Episcopal Church, have one common bond of union, stronger even than their nationality—and that is a strong Protestant feeling; a feeling that nothing would tempt them, in any way, to assist or countenance the Roman Catholic Church. They think her belief erroneous; they are distrustful of her promises; they hate her tenets; and are jealous of her power. Those of whom I now speak comprise more than five-sixths of the Scottish people, and their opinion is surely entitled to some consideration at the hands of this Committee. The first three Churches I have mentioned—namely, the Established Kirk, the Free Kirk, and the United Presbyterian Kirk, constitute the worshipping assemblies of a very large majority of the Scottish people. They all have the same form of Church government; they all have the same form of worship;
 1624 1625 Nemo me impunè lacessit. The Irish Nation 1626 Regium Donum; noblesse oblige. 1627
 MR. BRIGHT : I beg to say that I am not a member of the Liberation Society.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I waited, Sir, until the last moment in the expectation that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government would address the House, and in the belief that I was acting conformably to usage, as the person who proposed the Resolution that is now before the Committee, in desiring not to offer any remarks that I might feel necessary until the rest of the discussion had been wholly concluded. But as that is not to be so, I take occasion to observe that during this debate, which has ranged over a wide field, and now at the end of the eleventh night—and I, for one, do not grudge the time bestowed upon so important a question—the discussion has turned in general upon accessory and secondary matters, and not upon the merits of the Irish Church itself. But, after all, at this we can hardly wonder, for the case of the Irish Church is simple enough. The hon. Baronet who commenced the debate this evening (Sir Michael Hicks-Beach) in a very attractive speech stated, and laid great stress on the statement, that the Irish Church at present exists. Well, Sir, that is an admission to which I attach great importance. It is an admission which we are constrained to make, and I think it is almost the only admission with respect to it that can possibly be made. For when we are asked to show cause for the removal of the Irish Church, assuredly it is enough to say, in recommending that the existence of the institution be brought to its term, that it never has fulfilled—that it is demonstrated it never can fulfil any of the objects for which a religious Establishment is constituted. It is not the Church of the nation, but the Church of a fraction of between one-eighth and one-tenth of the nation. It is not the Church of the poor, for my right
 1651 1652 1653 1654 1655 "Your Petitioners are convinced that the maintenance of the Protestant Establishment in Ireland, being in itself a manifest injustice, and a constant source of irritation, has been and still is a great hindrance to the reception of the Protestant Faith by the Irish people. That your Petitioners view with alarm and regret the various concessions to Popery which have been already made in the shape of Maynooth endowments, and the recent proposal of Her Majesty's Ministers to create and endow a new Roman Catholic University in Ireland. That your Petitioners observe that all these concessions to Popery are justified on the ground that they are a kind of set-off against the injustice of maintaining a Protestant Establishment in Ireland. Your Petitioners therefore, pray"— "that your honourable House will take such steps as may be necessary to disestablish and disendow the Established Church in Ireland." 1656 "The Liberal party in England has introduced a Bill into Parliament by which the tyranny of the State Church in Ireland is to be brought to an end." "That party has determined that the Emancipation of the Catholics carried in 1829 should at least become a reality and a truth, and that one further step in advance should be made. It demands that this Church, with its oppressive privileges, that this Established Church—this English State Church, which in Ireland claims rank above the Roman Catholics, should cease to exist. Gentlemen, that is the demand of the Liberal party in England; as the law before us is the demand of the Liberal party in Austria. It is for you to draw the parallel. In England the Roman Catholics, in Austria the Protestants and other
 1657 1658 1659 "When pulpit, drum ecclesiastic, Was beat with fist instead of a stick." "It is, in my opinion, a great benefit to a country when it can have its civil government and its prevailing religious opinions in alliance; the State ruling all orders of men in cases spiritual as well as temporal, according to certain articles of belief, and a State form of worship on which the pastors of the Church have come to an agreement with the governors of the State. Nor is it enough that the articles of belief and the form of worship adopted should be those of the sect which is a majority as compared with any other communion; they must be such as are not repugnant to the general sense of the community, such that the minority may be satisfied with their position
 1660
 MR. GLADSTONE : The noble Lord has not read Mr. Miall's proposals; but if the noble Lord sets any value upon the information, the principle upon which Mr. Miall proposes to deal with the English Church Establishment are far more liberal than those which I have endeavoured to sketch in the proposal to deal with the the Irish Church Establishment. I will, in one moment, present the view I wish to bring before you. It is, upon any rational calculation, quite plain that the Church of England, if I am to go into regions so visionary to satisfy suspicion—[The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Oh, oh!] The Chancellor of the Exchequer may not consider them visionary. He may be prepared to deal with the question at once, and considering the rapidity with which his political evolutions have been executed on certain occasions, there is very little doubt that he would be prepared. But the effect of the disestablishment of the Established
 1661 mutatis mutandis, 1662 1663 1664 1665 1666 1667
 MR. GLADSTONE : I naturally, in common with other Members of the House, regret very sincerely any obstruction or interference with the general course of business; but I cannot possibly object to the Motion made by the responsible Ministers of the Crown under the circumstances of the case.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that some half-hour since, the Prime Minister announced that the vote of the House had
 1680
 MR. GLADSTONE  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he would now assent to the consideration of the Resolutions in Committee being the first Order of the Day?
 MR. BOUVERIE : I rise to order. I am not about to speak upon the question my right hon. Friend has raised; but I apprehend that the practice of the House is clear. Any portion of an Act of Parliament that is in existence the Clerk may be called upon to read, provided that it be relevant to the subject-matter of debate. But something which has been repealed by Parliament, and which has no existence whatever on the statute book, he can be no more called upon to read than to read a passage from  Hume's History of England,
 LORD ELCHO : If this were the first night of an important debate such as this, I should feel that it was an act of the grossest presumption on my part to obtrude myself upon the House; but, Sir, as you will do me the justice to admit, I endeavoured to catch your eye at an hour of the evening when the attendance in the House is usually very small. Having said this much, I protest against the tone of apology adopted by the hon. and learned Gentleman who preceded the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. He apologized for speaking at all upon this subject. Now, I hold that, be the debate long or be it short, Members of this House who have strong opinions on this question of the Irish Church have a right to express their opinions. I say this as a matter of principle, and not as a matter affecting myself personally; and I say it because I have observed that throughout this debate there has been an attempt made on this (the Opposition) side of the House to prevent discussion. ["No, no!"] The tone has been this—that the debate on this important subject ought not to be prolonged. Why? Lest it should interfere with the other business of the Session. But if it does interfere with the other business of
 1644 Cries of The Morning Chronicle. The Morning Chronicle "We ought to be most thankful that the Whigs were in office, because if they had not been in office the Charter would have been the law of the land, and we should have seen an ex-Whig Minister, in order to enforce it, breaking the windows in Pall Mall." 1645 The Morning Chronicle 1646 1647 1648 and 1649
 LORD ELCHO : I congratulate the hon. Gentleman upon this—that, being one of the most determined opponents of Establishments in this House, he is able to say that he has not joined a society with which he entirely sympathizes. Now, what is the programme of the Liberation Society? ["Question!"] Their programme consists of four parts—church rates, Ireland, Scotland and England. The first of these acts is played out. The second is being played out, and the members of the Liberation Society are too honest, and, indeed, too confident, to deny that they look with something like certainty to the completion of this programme. The other cause which has brought about the present state of things is the exigency of party. Will any man tell me that these causes, which are in force now, will be diminished by the passing of this measure? Does any man doubt that, in the course of a few years, some right hon. Gentleman will get up, and, pointing to some one whom he had previously opposed, will say in reference to the Scotch Church, "Now is the hour! Behold the man!" Am I speaking without book of what is before us? I know there are many Gentleman on this side of the House who, if they thought that by the vote they are about to give they would eventually disestablish the Church in Scotland and in England, would shrink from giving that vote to-night, and I wish to point out to those hon. Gentlemen what is marked out for them by the head of the voluntaries in this country. The aim and end of the voluntary movement was sketched by Mr. Miall ten years ago; and it is clear from what he said that the application of this principle to Ireland will re-act upon the Churches of Scotland and England. Now, I think I am justified in saying that we shall see the same state of things brought about in this country that is now proposed for Ireland. ["Divide!"] I trust the House will pardon me for thus giving expression to my opinions, feeling, as I do, that this is a question to be argued
 1650
 MR. COWPER  said, that the hon. Baronet (Sir William Heathcote), notwithstanding his well-known candour, had totally misrepresented the second Resolution, which, however, it was inconvenient to discuss at present. The hon. Gentleman, like other speakers, had appealed to their fears; and, like others, had not shaken the solid foundation upon which the Resolution stood—namely, that the Establishment of the Reformed Church in Ireland was an injustice, and a real ground of offence and discontent to a large portion of the Irish people. Though sympathizing with hon. Members, who felt that it was a strong measure to deprive an ancient Church of the privileges and the emoluments which it had enjoyed for 300 years, yet, he did not share their apprehension that it would affect the safety of private property. The privileges of the Established Church in Ireland, and the tithes, which were the public property of the nation, were to be considered in the light of a public trust; and the question was, had that public trust been exercised rightly, and for the benefit of the people, or had circumstances prevented it being so exercised? It was necessary to look at the origin of the Church Establishment in Ireland. When the Reformed Church was established there, Queen Elizabeth was in hostile relation with the Court of Rome, she having denied the supremacy of the Pope, and the latter her legitimacy and her right to reign. The Irish chieftains, who were at war with the Government, clung to the Pope as an ally, and the
 1602 1603 de facto, de jure? 1604 Fais ce que doit advienne que pourra.
 LORD EDWARD CAVENDISH  denied the truth of the accusation which had been brought against the Liberal party by
 1612 1613 1614
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, the building for the Royal Academy behind Burlington House was being proceeded with very rapidly; but whether it would be ready in time for holding the Exhibition of 1869, owing to the shortness of the notice, he had not been able to ascertain. With regard to the very large Library belonging to the Royal Society, which consisted of something like 100,000 volumes, it was obvious that to ask the Royal Society to remove twice over so large and valuable a collection of books would be a course that could not be taken without grave necessity. If it were found impossible to complete the building in time for the Exhibition of 1869, he still hoped that some temporary arrangement might be made; and he could assure the hon.
 1581
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  denied that the Government had done anything wrong in the matter.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied, that the Report was being prepared with as little delay as possible. The hon. Member was, perhaps, aware that all the compensation claims had not yet been decided, which delayed the completion of the statistical portion of the Report. He trusted, however, that the Report would be completed and laid upon the table before the end of the Session.
 MR. AYRTON  asked how the Government statement could come off on Monday unless the "Irish Church" was put down as the first Order? If it was not so placed there would be a breach of faith on the part of the Government.
 MR. INNES  said, that these Resolutions proposed to govern Ireland by exceptional legislation, which would be a most vicious principle to adopt. The object of this attempt to destroy the Irish Church was not to benefit that country, but to meet the exigencies of the disunited party.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he rose to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it be true that the Royal Academy has nearly completed its premises at the back of Burlington House, and that they will be ready for the annual Exhibition of 1869, but that the Royal Academy will be unable to take possession of them until the Library of the Royal Society has been removed from Burlington House; and, whether he will take immediate steps to find proper accommodation for that Library, so that the Royal Academy may at the earliest period remove from the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square, in order that adequate space may be provided for the exhibition of the National Pictures?
 MR. DISRAELI : I will not attempt, Sir, to argue in favour of the objection raised by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock after your decision. But I confess I entirely sympathized with the objection taken; and I hope my hon. Friend (Mr. Freville Surtees) will not persist in his Motion. If he wishes to refer to the historical document he has now asked for, he can do that in his speech. Every one must feel that every Roman Catholic Member is equitably bound to conform to the existing law, and to that alone. But I would remind my hon. Friend that it is in his power if he likes to refer in his speech to the document in question. I hope, therefore, he will not place this House in the position of going to a division in which, no doubt, the great Majority of Members Would be upon the one side.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed that when the House met on Monday, it would be competent for the right hon. Gentleman to propose the arrangement he desired.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the vote at which the Committee has now arrived has altered the relations between Her Majesty's Government and the present House of Commons; it is, therefore, necessary for us to consider our position. I propose, with the permission of the House, to move that the House, at its rising, adjourn until Monday next.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon.
 1668 1669 Laughter. Principles of Political Justice; 1670 Opposition Cheers. 1671 The Nonconformist, "The Irish Church question will not be finally disposed of before the public mind will be prepared to entertain proposals in reference to the Scotch Kirk and the Church of England. As it has been with one Establishment, so, probably, will it be with others; their time is fixed. An impulse will be given unexpectedly, and from an unexpected quarter. Mr. Gladstone is treading on the verge of a wide region of change." 1672 imperium in imperio, 1673 1674 in magno certamine utriusque Ecclesiæ, 1675
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that Ways and Means had been placed on the Paper in the ordinary way. The House could on Monday decide as to the course of business. He moved the adjournment of the House till Monday.
 MR. DISRAELI  then moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that a Report on the subject of Millar's sentence had been received in this country, in the May of last year. It stated that the Attorney General of the Colony of Victoria had consulted the Judges before whom Millar was tried, and agreed with them that the sentence should not be commuted. The Government in this country, thinking the question rather doubtful, referred it to the Law Officers of the Crown, who reported that, though there was doubt on the question, they considered the punishment excessive; the question being whether, on an indictment for fraudulent insolvency, the terms of punishment could be made cumulative on each of the four counts. The punishment awarded by the Statute was fifteen years' transportation or three years' imprisonment, whereas the sentence was six years' imprisonment. The Government had therefore referred to the Governor and Judges of Victoria for the purpose of taking the best course in the circumstances, and to remit any excess in the length of the sentence.
 MR. ADDERLEY , in reply, said, he had taken pains to ascertain from the Mayor of Southampton what was the state of the case. He found that no British subjects were taken on board foreign transatlantic steamers at Southampton; but foreigners did come by small steamers to Southampton, from Havre and other continental ports, for the purpose of taking ship to America. The question of the applicability of the Passenger Acts was submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown in 1857, and an elaborate Opinion was obtained from them to the effect that those Acts did not apply to passengers shipped  in transitu.
 MR. READ  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Council, When the final Report on the Cattle Plague, ordered by the Lords of the Council to be prepared by the Veterinary Department will be completed; and, if it is the intention of the Privy Council to place that Report upon the Table of the House?
 MR. REARDEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is his intention to recommend to the Crown the respiting of the prisoner Michael Barrett, against whom a verdict of guilty was returned by the jury, and sentence of death passed by the Judge on his trial at the Old Bailey on the 27th instant, notwithstanding the sworn testimony of six witnesses, who proved that the prisoner was not in England at the time the crime was committed for which he has been found guilty, in order to afford the prisoner an opportunity of producing further evidence to establish his innocence?
 MR. REARDEN  announced his intention of calling the attention of the House to the subject.
 MR. REARDEN  said, he would recommend to the attention of the House the following quotation from a satirical work published by Thomas Moore more than forty-five years ago, which aptly applied to the intense hostility, existing then as well as now, against the monstrous injustice of maintaining the Established Church incubus upon the Catholic people of Ireland:—
 "As long as millions shall kneel down, To ask of thousands for their own; While thousands proudly turn away, And to the millions answer 'Nay!' So long the merry reign shall be Of Captain Rock and his family." 1621 1622 sina quâ non 1623
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that, when the arrangement for Committee on Ways and Means, as the first Order on Monday, was made, it was understood that the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire would be considered that evening.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I regret, Sir, that an hon. Member of this House should think it his duty to put such a Question to me. Under the circumstances, I think it my duty to decline to answer it,
 MR. G. YOUNG  said, he thought that the complaint of the hon. and gallant Member (Sir John Hay) that no representative from Scotland had taken a part in the discussion, might have been made to justify in some measure the desire of the Government to protract the debate. In his opinion there was no reason why this question should be regarded by Scotch Members in a different point of view from that in which it was regarded by English Members. Scotland was a Protestant country like England, and the only ecclesiastical difference between them was that the majority of the people of England were Episcopalians, while the vast majority of the people of Scotland were Presbyterians. That was the reason, as they all knew, why the Episcopalian Church was established in England and the Presbyterian Church established in Scotland. In both countries the Established Church was in reality the Church of the people. He demurred to the proposition that the union of Church and State was a question of principle, and maintained that it was altogether a question of expediency. There were in Scotland, as in England, great varieties of
 1628 1629 1630 1631 1632
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was of opinion that the "Irish Church" should be placed as the first Order for Monday.
 MR. SPEAKER : The only argument that could be urged for the Motion would be that there are some Members in the House who took the Oath in its original form.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member has misconceived my meaning, I gave no such decision as he apprehends. The House has undertaken to decide the Motion on its merits.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether there is any probability that the unsightly groups of piling which obstruct the River between Westminster Bridge and Hungerford will be removed; and, if so, when; and, whether he can state with whom the responsibility rests?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that even at the risk of wearying the Committee by a reiteration of arguments which had already been used, he should prefer to apply himself to points raised in this debate rather than to ransack volumes of  Hansard primâ facie 1585 1586 1587 The Times 1588 Regium Donum; 1589 "There was no principle on which the Church Establishment could be maintained or permanently upheld but that it was an Establishment that ought to be. … The Government, as a Government, is bound to maintain that form of belief which contains the largest portion of truth and the smallest admixture of error." Laughter. 1590
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the promotions in the Coldstream Guards in succession to Captain and Lieutenant Colonel Clive have been delayed since the 14th of March; whether it is proposed that the present number of Lieutenants and Captains in that Regiment be reduced; and, if not, why has the Regiment been kept short of its proper complement of officers; and, whether there are in the Coldstream or other Regiments of Guards officers qualified by service to fill such vacancy?
 MR. HURST  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any Report has yet been received from the Governor of Victoria on the case of George Millar, a prisoner at Melbourne under a sentence which is alleged to be illegal; if such Report has been received, what is the nature of it, and whether there is any objection to lay it upon the Table; and, if no Report has yet been received, when it may be expected?
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If he is aware that large numbers of passengers embark on board certain Foreign Transatlantic Steamers at Southampton without their being subjected
 1575
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he had not expected to find the Government acting in the manner they were doing.
 MR. WALPOLE : Without following the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. G. Young) into those collateral topics with which he concluded his speech, I think I shall best consult the feelings of the House by confining myself as closely as possible to the real issue now before the House, and that issue is the Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman. Much has been said of that Resolution; and though it is true that in terms it is confined to Ireland, and to Ireland only, yet it can hardly be doubted that in principle, if not in intention, in its inevitable tendency, and if not in its immediate yet in its ultimate consequences, the whole question of Church Establishments is at issue. Gloss the matter over as you will, the maintenance of Church Establishments, and the placing these Establishments under the guardianship, control, and superintendence of the State, is really the issue we have to try. I venture to think that the hon. and learned Gentleman who has addressed the Committee with great ability and ingenuity, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), who has also spoken with great ability and ingenuity, have in their arguments confounded two matters which are distinct in themselves, and ought therefore to be determined on distinct considerations. Those two matters are, first, the circumstances under which you might or might not deem it advisable to establish a national Church where none was previously in being; and secondly, the grounds upon which you would be justified in disestablishing a national Church where one already existed. If, indeed, we were now discussing for the first time whether we would establish a national Church in Ireland, I admit there are various reasons which would press upon us the consideration whether we ought to establish it in the form in which it at present exists. But the same considerations might be pressed upon us if we were considering the question with regard to the hon. Member's own country of Scotland, or of Wales, or even England itself. In each of these countries questions differing in degree, but not in kind, might require us to give a similar answer. You must look at the views, at the feelings, the wishes of the inhabitants, and at the means provided for the maintenance of such an Establishment. In that case some might think it prudent to recognize simply and solely the voluntary
 1633 1634 "In order to alter such laws as these there should be a manifest inutility or a manifest hurtfulness in the institution which made it essential and important for the public welfare that it should be abolished." 1635 1636 1637 1638 1639 Regium Donum. 1640 1641 1642 1643
 SIR THOMAS BATESON : I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman, If he is aware that the petition was signed only by the Moderator and the Clerk of the Presbytery; that those gentlemen did not appear on the face of the document to have had any authority to represent the Presbytery; and that the petition did not purport to have emanated from the general body?
 MR. BAXTER  said, that this was one of the most remarkable of debates, because neither before nor after Easter had any who took part in it said anything in defence of the Irish Church on its merits. Hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House had framed all manner of excuses for postponement, and had suggested an equally large number of reasons, mainly based on considerations of convenience and difficulty, why the matter should be postponed altogether. He had waited patiently night after night in the hope that some hon. Gentleman would assume the courageous position that this Church of Ireland was a wise, just, and beneficent institution. He hoped the time would come when hon. Members would think it beneath their dignity to attack the religious opinions of anyone in that House. He had been sorry to hear the Secretary for the Poor Law Board (Sir Michael Hicks-Beach) make a quotation from the writings of Macaulay hostile to the Roman Catholic religion. He had hoped the time when men would be attacked on the ground of creed had passed away. But, as the hon. Baronet had thought fit to quote Lord Macaulay, he would do the same. It should, however, be a quotation of a different character. Three or four and twenty years ago Lord Macaulay asked this question in the House of Commons—
 "What foreigner reading over British politics does not always express his amazement that such an institution as the Irish Church should ever be permitted to exist among civilized men? 1609 1610 "It has nearly 2,400 chapels, of which more than 2,000 have been built since 1800, at a cost of £3,500,000. In the same period it has established
 1611
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any alterations in the Indian Furlough System are contemplated; and, if so, when the Plan of the Government will be communicated to the House?
 SIR CHARLES LANYON  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Member for South Lancashire, Whether, when he presented a Petition on the 27th instant from the Presbytery of Antrim, in favour of his Resolutions, and against the further grant of the  Regium Donum,
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that before the Recess two modes of dealing with the Irish Church were suggested; the policy of procrastination recommended by the Government, and the policy of action proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire. The latter policy was adopted by a majority unexampled in modern times for numbers and weight; and the right hon. Gentleman now proposed this Resolution not as Leader of the Opposition, but as Leader of the House. The right hon. Gentlemen who occupied the Treasury Bench were in fact not Her Majesty's Government but Her Majesty's Opposition. Whether the position which they occupied was one consistent with their dignity was a point which he would not now touch upon, for probably another opportunity would be afforded of discussing it. With regard to the Resolutions he did not admit that their adoption by the Committee would amount to an act of "foreign conquest;" but he could not deny but that it would be a most important step, more particularly as it would altogether alter the
 1591 volo non valeo 1592 "There is no abuse like it in all Europe, in all Asia, in all the discovered parts of Africa, and in all we had heard of Timbuctoo." 1593 1594 1595 "I have reason to believe that they (the High Church Ritualists) have been for some time in
 1596 séance 1597 L'etat c'est moi. 1598
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, to save the time of the Committee he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought that any settlement of the course of business was immaterial when a statement was to be made by the Premier on Monday.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire had exhibited unnecessary excitement. There had been no engagement, and the request made of the House by his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury was a very natural one under the circumstances.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, the vacancy caused by the promotion of Captain and Lieutenant Colonel Clive has not been filled up; but there is no intention whatever to reduce the number of officers in that Regiment. When the vacancy occurred it was discovered that a very unusual state of affairs existed in the Regiment—one nearly without precedent; the six senior Ensigns of the Coldstream Guards were not qualified by service for their promotion, while of the whole sixteen Ensigns only two were so qualified — one of them standing seventh upon the list, and the other being, as it happened, the junior Ensign of the Regiment. The question then arose whether
 1580
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, it had been felt for some time that the Furlough Regulations for the Indian Service had become obsolete and required revision. In the early part of last autumn he had communicated with Sir John Lawrence on the subject, and also referred it to a Committee of the Council of India. But before that Committee had made much progress news came from Sir John Lawrence that he had appointed
 1577
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  suggested that the House were only losing time. It would be easy on Monday after the statement of his right hon. Friend to settle the course of business.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  stated, in reply, that the piles alluded to by the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmund's were erected by the Waterloo and Whitehall Railway Company under their Act of 1865. The works had been at a stand-still since October, 1866, and the Directors had stated at general meetings that they were without funds. Their powers expired in July, 1870. They had brought in a Bill for extension of time this Session, which the Thames Conservators had opposed, and the Company had agreed to a provision that all the works on the river should be completed by July, 1870. After that date the Board of Trade or the Conservators might remove the obstructions. With regard to the Question of the noble Lord the Member for Kildare, the obstruction off Battersea Park was the temporary staging of the Albert Bridge. The Act was passed in 1864, and the powers expired in 1869,
 1578
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said: I will detain the Committee but a very short time, partly because much that I might have urged has already been better said by others, and partly because some of my opinions may appear somewhat old-fashioned and out of date in these days. It is somewhat remarkable that, when this question, or rather a portion of this question, was discussed in 1835, the line of argument which ran through the whole debate was one which has been scarcely used on this occasion. The position then maintained by the various defenders of the Irish Church, including the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), was that the Church of England taught truth, and that the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church was founded on error; and, though I should be sorry to say a word which could give the slightest pain or offence to any Roman Catholic, or imply the smallest disrespect for those who, I am well assured, are as sincere in their opinions as those who do not share them, yet this must necessarily be the creed of every honest Protestant, otherwise he would not be a Protestant at all. If, then, this be so, how can any true Protestant—for I do not speak of those who are indifferent to all forms of religion—assent to the overthrow of what he believes to be the upholder of truth, however conscious he may be that there is much in it requiring reform? Surely on one ground alone—namely, that what may
 1605 The Tablet, 1606 1607 Opposition Cheers. Counter Cheers. "There, where a few torn shrubs the place disclose, The village preacher's modest mansion rose." 1608
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had alluded to the effect which the present Motion might be supposed to have on the party sitting on that (the Ministerial) side of the House. He (Sir William Heathcote) entertained such strong constitutional objections to the continuance of Government by a minority, which amounted in fact to an irresponsible Government from the other side of the House, and his objections were so much exasperated and increased by finding that the opinion which he cherished suffered most by that state of things, that he certainly did not feel excessively sensitive as to the effect of that Motion on the fate of the Ministry. That being his opinion he claimed, so far as a party view of the case was concerned, to be considered impartial if he expressed an adverse opinion as to the manner and the time in which it was brought forward. It appeared to him to be beyond the legitimate use of the weapons of party warfare, to resort to a great constitutional question which by the right hon. Gentleman's own statement, could not be setttled in the present Parliament for the purpose of dislodging the Government. He did not dispute the legal competency of the present Parliament to deal with that subject, and he thought that Parliament was morally and intellectually as competent to do so, if it was to be done, as the future one was likely to be. But the point was this—that hon. Gentlemen opposite were raising a great question which they could not settle, and raising it in general terms; whereas the main part of the defence of their case must rest on the manner in which they meant to carry it into execution. Therefore, looking at the manner and the time in which that Motion was brought forward he, he should be disposed to vote against it, even if he had less doubt as to its substance. They were discussing the first Resolution, and therefore he would not enter upon questions of detail; but he might be allowed to refer to the second and third Resolutions as throwing some light upon the first. The third Resolution he regarded as nothing more than a respectful request to the Crown to permit them to discuss a subject which they could not otherwise discuss. But the second Resolution appeared to him to call, in very distinct terms, upon the Queen to anticipate legislation by abstaining from the performance of acts which were not
 1599 1600 1601
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that the last man who ought to complain of the time of the House being wasted was the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY : I know Mr. Miall well; I have heard him in this House, and I know that he is the enemy of all Establishments.
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, If any measure is contemplated to remedy the grievances of retired Officers of the Navy, especially those under the head of H. I. K., who complain of unjust treatment; First, in compulsory retirement; Secondly. Refusing to admit them to the benefits of other retired Captains and Commanders for length of service as awarded to all others?
 MR. CORRY  said, in reply, the hon. and gallant Member was mistaken in supposing that the retirement of the Officers in question was compulsory. The conditions offered to them were distinctly specified in the Orders in Council which constituted the list, and the Admiralty had no intention of altering the present arrangement.
 MR. GLADSTONE : It appears to me, Sir, that whether the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman in introducing into the statement he has made so much matter of a retrospective nature and so much matter of an argumentative character be a novel course or not, it is attended with this inconvenience—that those who have travelled over the ground along with the right hon. Gentleman, and who are not able to take the same view of the matters he has touched upon as necessarily presents itself to his mind, cannot pass by in absolute silence the retrospective portions of his speech. Now, with respect to the panegyric which the right hon. Gentleman has pronounced upon the conduct of most of the Departments—not all the Departments, nor all the great Departments—of the State under the present Administration, all that I have to say is that I think such a panegyric would have been more in place upon some occasion when the existence or the general conduct of the Government was questioned by an opponent than when the right hon. Gentleman was only showing to us the reasons which have satisfied his own mind and that of his Colleagues that he would best perform his duty to his country by continuance in Office. I am sorry that the right hon. Gentleman's statement upon this matter assumes in so far the character of a challenge, that, while I freely own in respect to various Departments of the State that I see no reason why Parliament should regard the conduct of public affairs by them otherwise than with satisfaction, there are other Departments—and, I must say, the whole of the great spending Departments, the military and the naval Departments, and the great controlling Department of the Treasury—with respect to which I, for one, cannot express anything that approaches to satisfaction or approval, and must reserve my free right to question both the past conduct and the present intentions of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman spoke of finance. I do not now refer to finance. He will understand that I refer to that other great function of the Treasury which makes it the main security of the country for moderating the public expenditure. I pass on from that subject, and I must notice what was stated by the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the Irish Church. The right hon. Gentleman succinctly, but in very plausible terms, ran over the whole of the arguments which
 1709 1710 1711 1712 1713 1714 paulo post futurum 1715 1716 1717
 MR. BRIGHT : Mr. Speaker, notwithstanding the reply which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire has made to the observations of the First Minister of the Crown, and the speeches that have followed, I think there are still some things that may with advantage be said before this debate closes. I believe that some Members of the House received the observations of the right hon. Gentleman opposite with surprise, and that some received them with astonishment. I am not sure that the feeling of astonishment will not prevail throughout the country, and that it will not be expressed for many years to come by those who look back upon the transactions of this period. The right hon. Gentleman asks us to overturn the long-existing usage of Parliament; he asks us to disregard that which is the first principle of our Parliamentary action. I am not stating this a mere matter of my opinion. I say that, apart from party considerations, there is not a Member of the House of Commons who will differ from me in the opinion I now express. He asks us to do this to maintain in Office a Minister who acceded to Office by arts which, in my opinion, were not the most worthy in their character, and who has maintained himself in Office by adopting—so far as he has adopted any policy—a policy utterly at variance with everything he professed when in Opposition. The right hon. Gentleman says—and some of his friends say, and I suppose think, that there is a disposition to do him and his Administration; some injustice — [Mr. NOEL was under-
 1731 1732 Regium Donum 1733 1734 liaison 1735 1736 1737 1738 1739 1740 d. 1741
 MR. GLADSTONE  remarked that nothing had been said about the Order for the resumption of the Committee on the Resolutions on the Irish Church, and expressed a hope that they might be proceeded with on Thursday.
 MR. BRIGHT : At what hour?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, this is the most proper opportunity for those who are so disposed to offer any remarks on the finances of the country. I should have been desirous, in the circumstances of the present Session, to have dispensed, if it had been possible, with the remarks I am about to offer; but it is not, and I am the
 1747 1748 1749 d. 1750 Trent; 1751 Ironical Cheers. 1752 Cheers.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I did not mean to use the words in any offensive sense. I meant they were not entitled to credit or praise.
 MR. CORRY : Sir, if my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War had reason to question the course pursued of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), still stronger is my own ground of complaint, because that right hon. Gentleman has attacked the Estimates for which I am primarily responsible without having heard
 1761 1762 nil. 1763
 MR. CORRY  explained that he had spoken principally of works to be executed by contract, and not in the dockyards.
 GENERAL PEEL : Sir, I am under a disadvantage, not only in being unprepared for the debate, but in not having heard that debate. It appears to me that speeches on fortifications have no reference whatever to the subject before us—namely, the increase of the annual expenditure. The present Government have no responsibility whatever with regard to those fortifications. They were decided upon by Lord Palmerston's Government, and on taking Office I distinctly disclaimed all responsibility for them. The hon. Gentlemen who spoke last does not seem to be aware that though the sum necessary for the erection of the fortifications was proposed to be provided by money raised by a loan, the armament for them was to be provided for out of the annual Estimates. The original Estimate for that armament was £1,885,000; but when I came into Office in 1866, only £85,000 of that sum had been charged in the Estimates. The country was a gainer by the delay; for otherwise there would probably have been a very bad gun at three times the cost that was ultimately incurred: but it is not fair to turn round on the Government and blame them for an increase in the Estimates because they have provided this armament. I think that had I been present when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) spoke, I should have been able to show that it was not only very unreasonable, but very unwise, to make a comparison between the expenditure of his Government and of the present one. When I came into Office in 1859 the total expenditure for which I was responsible was £13,500,000, but the expenditure in that Department went on increasing while the right hon. Gentleman was Chancellor of the Exchequer to £16,000,000 and upwards; and in 1866 our armaments were in much the same position that they had been in 1859. When I came into Office we had not a single rifled gun. I introduced those 12-pounder Armstrong guns which have, I hope to hear in the course of a few days, been so very effectual in Abyssinia; but the Government of the day, though urged to wait for some further trials, went in for the larger Armstrong guns, which cost upwards of £3,000,000, and all of which proved a failure. As to a comparison of Estimates, it must be remembered that Estimates are only an
 1765
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that, not having heard the remarks either of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) or of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington), he would not now attempt to enter into the discussion; but he should be ready on another occasion to discuss the points which had been raised. As to the large increase in the Votes for Army Purposes having arisen from the necessity of supplying large guns and from the increased pay of the troops, he maintained that those two items did not account for the whole, or nearly the whole, of that increase. He always contemplated the probability of a large additional expenditure for the supply of heavy guns for naval purposes and for arming our fortifications; but it was hardly fair to blame the late Government for not taking action in the matter. Their principle was to provide the armament for the ships and fortifications which would be ready within the year, and this was the most prudent course that could have been pursued. As he had before remarked, it was easy to find good reasons for increasing any particular Vote; but those on whom the responsibility rested were bound, not only to see in what way money could be usefully expended, but in what way it could be usefully saved. He did not say that it would have been possible for the late Government to practise greater economy than the present, but the two items which had been
 1766
 MR. GLADSTONE : What I said was that the legacies left by the late Government tended to a progressive decrease in expenditure.
 MR. BOUVERIE : Sir, I must raise my voice, humble though it be, against the continuance of the present most mischievous, anomalous, and unconstitutional state of things. The right hon. Gentleman two months ago announced that he had been authorized by Her Majesty to assume the first place in the Government of this country, and as First Minister of the Crown attempted to indicate the policy that he meant to pursue. By way of making it clear, he said that policy would be the policy of the Earl of Derby. Considerable doubts were entertained at the time as to what this policy of the Earl of Derby meant. But now, I apprehend, we have some further information on this subject, because the Earl of Derby has recently indicated his policy on the question which is now before Parliament, and, as I understand it, the right hon. Gentleman's Government have exactly followed the counsels of the Earl of Derby. The policy of those counsels appears to be to try and set the two Houses of Parliament at loggerheads with each other, and to put this House of Commons at variance with the Crown. Now, it is a most essential part of the working of our Constitution in modern times that this House should be in harmony with the Crown. In ancient times we had perpetual quarrels and differences with the Crown, and for more than 100 years those quarrels continued. They were of the most portentous character, for there were two rebellions, three revolutions, and one change of dynasty before we got the system of government into the right groove, and established that mode of government
 1727 Administrations of Great Britain "It was not, in fact, definitively and clearly established unlit the year 1784, that where there is a conflict between the personal opinions of the Sovereign and those of a majority of the House of Commons the latter and not the former is to prevail, unless, indeed, a dissolution and a new election should reverse the decision of the previous Parliament." "The precedent of 1784, therefore establishes this rule of conduct, that if the Ministers chosen by the Crown do not possess the confidence of the House of Commons they may advise an appeal to
 1728 1729
 MR. AYRTON  said, that, before the right hon. Gentleman answered that question, he should be glad if he would give his (the Opposition) side of the House some better and clearer explanation of the position in which the Government stood, not only towards that House, but towards Her Majesty herself, because he had left the House in considerable doubt as to whether public affairs were now to be carried on under his advice and responsibility as a Minister of the Crown, or whether they were being carried on under the advice and responsibility of Her Majesty. If he understood the right hon. Gentleman correctly, he had placed two alternative propositions before Her Majesty for her consideration; but when two propositions were placed before the Sovereign it was obvious that a Minister shifted from himself the responsibility of taking either one or the other, and put the entire responsibility on the Sovereign to whom he gave such equivocal suggestions and advice. It seemed that Her Majesty was embarrassed by not having the clear advice of her Minister; and it was not very apparent whether Her Majesty suggested that something else should be done, or whether her Minister suggested it to the Sovereign. If so, the right hon. Gentleman must have put three courses to Her Majesty, and left with her the responsibility of deciding which course should be adopted. That state of things was a very serious perplexity to Gentlemen on his side of the House; for they did not know whether they might not be taking a course which was not only contrary to the views of Her Majesty's Ministers, but to the views of Her Majesty herself, which had been brought before the House in so extraordinary a manner. The matter was one that might exercise a very material influence over the minds, not only of Memmers of that House, but of the entire country. According to one portion of the right hon. Gentleman's statement, he appeared to be a suffering Minister, who was holding Office by the wish of the Queen, for the benefit of the people. A Minister in that position carried with him an enormous amount of sympathy, and throughout the whole country such a suffering Minister must receive an assistance and support which would not be accorded to a
 1725 1726
 MR. AYRTON  inquired what would be the course of the business of the evening?
 MR. DISRAELI : After the Committee of Ways and Means we shall go on with the Representation of the People (Ireland) Bill. With regard to the Boundary Bill, representations have been made to me by hon. Members opposite. I believe it would be very inconvenient to them to have the Boundary Bill to-night. Therefore I will not press that; but I hope we shall go on with the representation of the People (Ireland) Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI  replied that the right
 1746
 MR. DISRAELI : Not after eleven o'clock.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am not going to trouble the House at any length, but one or two observations have been made which I must notice. Mainly, I shall speak with reference to what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) and others with regard to the audience which I had with Her Majesty. Now, what occured with regard to a dissolution or resignation was simply this—that Her Majesty's Ministers advised Her Majesty in the present state of public affairs, and mainly to obtain the opinion of the country upon the great question at issue, to dissolve Her Parliament, but at the same time they stated that if that course were embarrassing to Her Majesty they would tender their resignations. Her Majesty did not accept our resignations, and gave her unqualified assent to a dissolution of Parliament without the least reference to old or new constituencies. It was, as I thought I had distinctly shown at a subsequent period—and speaking with reference to the difficulty of this matter of dissolving at the time most convenient to the public interest—that I adverted to the peculiar and unprecedented circumstances, and in so doing I was acting under the representation which was made to me shortly before I went to Osborne by a Gentleman well known and deeply versed in these matters. By relinquishing, as we should feel bound to do, any attempts at legislation which we have made, and by confining ourselves solely to passing the Boundary Bills and the two Reform Bills for Scotland and Ireland, we were informed that it was possible to have an autumnal dissolution, and by an autumnal dissolution I understand a dissolution in November. These statements were made by Gentlemen learned in the
 1743 1744 1745
 MR. DISRAELI : Yes.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I will take a case. The late Secretary of State for the Home Department (Sir George Grey) recommended an increase in the pay of the police. I apprehend the right hon. Gentleman was a party to that measure, and I do not find fault with it. In fact, the pay of almost everybody having been increased, it was found the police force could not be properly recruited without raising the pay. The right hon. Member for Morpeth (Sir George Grey) sent a circular to all the counties, and suggested an increase in the pay of the police. That suggestion has been very largely acted on, and as the Treasury contributes 25 per cent of the constablary pay, the proposal has resulted in increased Imperial expenditure. Those who scrutinize the Estimates carefully will find that very little of the increased expenditure of the year arises from new schemes; but that it is almost wholly occasioned by the continuing of measures set on foot by the late Government. It must also be remembered that the House is continually passing measures for the improvement of the country, and requiring Government to take the superintendence of such improvements. In this way a large increase of expenditure has been rendered necessary within the last two or three years by measures which have received the general assent of the House. There has been legislation for increased education, and for sanitary improvements. We have to pay for our improved civilization, and for the greater comfort that is now enjoyed by all classes of the people. Hon. Members, therefore, who press these proposals forward must not complain if, when their wishes are complied with, the Executive Government comes forward with
 1773 d. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think, Sir, I may safely say no one has ever heard me complain of this House jealously watching any increase of public expenditure; on the contrary, I think discussions of this nature greatly strengthen the hands of the Treasury in controlling that expenditure. If anyone will turn to the votes I have given since I have been a Member of this Mouse he will find they have always been given in favour of economy. But when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) came down to the House the other night, and charged the present Government with extravagance. I thought it my duty to call the attention of the Committee to certain considerations he had entirely omitted. I ventured to say that the right hon. Gentleman was responsible for the expenditure he referred to. That position I re-affirm, notwithstanding that the right hon. Gentleman has controverted it to-night. There is no question that a large increase of expenditure was proposed last year; and I say that the right hon. Gentleman was bound, if he knew of sound reasons for objecting to that increase, not only to have stated his objection, but to have taken the sense of the House upon the subject. The right hon. Gentleman has said that it was not proper at that time to divert the House from the graver subject under consideration; but that I contend is not a sufficient excuse, for the right hon. Gentleman was not only a Leader of a majority of the House, but had filled a very important office, which he had lately vacated. He was also surrounded by hon.
 1771 1772
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the hon. Member would not press his Amendment. The matter had been very fully discussed in 1866, and again last year; and the House, he thought, would exhibit great infirmity of purpose if, because of a temporary pressure, it abandoned a course of action which had been deliberately agreed upon. The Amendment, if carried, would necessitate the passing of a new Act to regulate the interest payable on the terminable annuities.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, after the division on Thursday night, I mentioned that, in our opinion, it altered the relations between Her Majesty's Government and the House, and that it would be necessary for them to consider their position; and with that view I asked the consent of the House to an adjournment for some few days. I now ask further permission from the House to make a short statement on the subject, to give them the result of the consideration of our position, and to state the course which, in consequence, we think it our duty to pursue. I believe I am trespassing on the strict rules of the House in making a statement of this kind without a Motion, but these are rare occasions, and I am sure I can trust to the indulgence of the House. The House will recollect that when, in 1866, the Earl of Derby was summoned by the Queen to take the ma-
 1695 1696 1697 1698 1699 1700 1701 imperium in imperio, 1702 1703 1704 1705 1706 1707 1708
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the vote at which the House arrived the other night on the Motion of the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney) has very much affected the position of the question with respect to charities; and I shall be obliged to the hon. Gentleman if, upon a subsequent occasion, he will repeat the Question. In the meantime I will endeavour to communicate to him the information he seeks as soon as I am in a position to do so.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished, as an Independent Member, to remark on the statement of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire that the Irish Church question had no reference to the question of a dissolution. The Government had been taunted with being a warming-pan Government, and the right hon. Gentleman now argued that the Government, having acceded to Office while in a minority, were bound to carry out the will of the majority. If that doctrine were to prevail, it would give him, as Leader of the Opposition, the power of forcing through Parliament—it might be in defiance of the opinion of the country—any measure, which he might unexpectedly bring forward, as a Member of the Opposition, and therefore without responsibility, using the Government as his agents. Such a practice, he contended, would be a flagrant violation of the Constitution. The right hon. Gentleman opposite was evidently not an advocate for triennial Parliaments, since he had condemned the Prime Minister for having appealed to Her Majesty in favour of a dissolution as one of the alternatives he had submitted. Thus, the right hon. Member for South Lancashire virtually proposed to suspend the Constitution for so long as the present Government remained in Office. A House which had deliberately condemned itself as not sufficiently representing the people was not entitled to pass any other measures
 1723
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said he thought the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Bouverie) had misrepresented the constitutional history of the country, in stating that from that history no precedent could be adduced of a Minister, who having the confidence of the Crown, but being in a minority in that House, continued to hold office. Now, that was the position of Mr. Pitt, who assumed the reins of government
 1730
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  called attention to the fact that we were putting by £1,000,000 this year and every year successively to make up a sinking fund, at the same time that we were borrowing another
 1774
 MR. CARDWELL : I rise Sir, for the purpose of asking the right hon. Gentleman to state with perfect clearness a point on which I am not sure we have entirely understood him. I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say he has been informed by some person of legal knowledge and great acquaintance with electioneering matters that it would be impossible, if the Irish and Scotch Reform Bills and the Boundary Bill were proceeded with, to take measures for a dissolution in November. In answer to that an objection was raised by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth (Sir Robert Collier), which he believes to be a difficulty in the way of proceeding in that matter. I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that on this point he will consult either the Law Officers of the Crown or, at any rate, legal gentlemen on whose opinion he can positively rely, and that, on an early occasion, he will state to the House the precise course which it is the intention of the Government to take.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he hoped shortly to proceed with the arrangements.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he should be speaking within the recollection of the Committee if he said that a portion of the challenge which had resulted in that discussion had come from the Chancellor of the Exchequer in replying to some observations which had been made by his right hon. Friend the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) on the introduction of the Budget. The right hon. Baronet who had just sat down was absent on that occasion from a cause which they all regretted. The right hon. Baronet had said that he was not bound to know what occurred in the debates in that House. Now, he (Mr. Goschen) took it that every Member of that House was bound to make himself acquainted with what passed there, especially upon matters of such importance as those which had been raised in the discussion to-night. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had asked the Committee to agree to a Resolution for an increase in the Income Tax, and the objection which his right hon. Friend the Member for South Lancashire had raised on the occasion of the introduction of the Budget was whether that increase of the Income Tax was not really caused by an increase of expenditure. He took it for granted that in every general discussion of finance it was necessary to treat at the same time the expenditure itself and the means by which it was proposed that expenditure should be met. Every individual, when he dealt with a question of his own income, was bound to look to both sides of the account; he was bound to consider how new expenditure was to be met, and if he had no fresh resources, then he ought to see how his expenditure
 1759 1760
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, What are the intentions of the Government with respect to the introduction of a Bill to exempt Hospitals, Sunday Schools (whether annexed to places of worship or otherwise), and other schools and charitable institutions generally from Poor's and other rates?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had stated that it was his intention to propose to Parliament some legislation which would enable a dissolution to take place in the autumn. Now, strictly speaking, the autumn did not end until the 21st of December, and as, by the Act, the new registration would not be in force until the 1st of January, 1869, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman—not to fix the day—but to state at about what time he contemplated going to the country to a General Election; and, further, whether the new Parliament would be called together as soon as it was elected?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that, with respect to the National Debt, the short answer to his hon. Friend (Mr. Laing) was, that for many years the policy of the House of Commons had been to apply a very considerable sum to the reduction of the debt by means of terminable annuities. These had to a great extent fallen in, and the policy of last year was no new policy, but simply an endeavour to redress the balance between permanent and terminable annui-
 1768 1769
 MR. CHILDERS  observed that it was for this reason that he had thrown the two items together; and in the aggregate Vote the whole increase in three years was only £34,000. Whether the Estimates had been worked up to more in one year than the other was another question. He could not think that every 12-inch gun cost £2,000 to prove it. He believed that, on this subject, the right hon. Gentleman had not correct information before him. As to the navy, the expense of armour-clads had been dealt with unfairly, for comparisons had been made with an exceptional year, which furnished no correct idea of the general expenditure. Had the years 1864 and 1865 been taken into account, and both dockyard and con-
 1770
 THE SPEAKER  said, it was out of order for the hon. Gentleman to discuss the Irish Church Question, or to refer to past debates.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, it was true that £245,000 was taken in the Estimates to be expended on contract ships this year beyond the sum so spent last year; but if he took from the saving in the dockyards the amount proposed to be spent on contract ships, there ought to be a reduction of from £200,000 to £250,000 in the Estimates; instead of which there was an increase of £200,000. He was astonished to hear from the Secretary of State for War that they might expect to pay no less a sum than £4,000,000 for guns for the fortifications, and he maintained that the question of those fortifications demanded careful revision. He was surprised to hear that no less than £1,300 would be required for testing the 9-inch gun, and £2,000 for the 12-inch gun. It would be impossible in time of emergency to furnish an adequate garrison to man and fight those guns. He believed the best policy in view of invasion would be the carrying of our defences further inland, so as to increase the distance between the point of disembarkation and the place of attack. It was a matter for serious consideration whether a number of arsenals and dockyards which could only be available in time of peace ought to be maintained. Such places as Pembroke, Chatham, and Woolwich might be preserved, but Ports-
 1764
 MR. SAMUDA  said, that, notwithstanding the great necessity which the First Lord of the Admiralty alleged to exist for strengthening the navy, the work proposed to be performed in the dockyards was reduced from 24,000 to 14,000 tons, the saving to be effected by which reduction might be roughly calculated at nearly £500,000.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he must protest against the assumption that there were only two parties in that House, and, as an Independent Member, he thanked the Prime Minister for the advice he had tendered to Her Majesty; any other course would have been a betrayal of his party. He contended that when the present Parliament was elected, the constituencies had not the slightest idea that the disestablishment of the Irish Church would be mooted, and the Prime Minister had therefore an undoubted light to appeal to the present constituencies. He did not see how they could get out of that. No one dreamt of it when Members were last at the hustings, and all he could say was that, had he been Prime Minister, he would not have hesitated for a moment, and he was only sorry that the dissolution had been delayed so long.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he did not think that the Irish Reform Bill could be fairly and temperately dealt with while the House had the chain of an impending dissolution hanging round its neck. He had merely risen for the purpose of expressing an opinion which was shared by many Others—that if they were to be visited with a dissolution it would be more becoming and more constitutional that that dissolution should be at once.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government on the subject of the proposed dissolution in the autumn. A great number of important and delicate questions would no
 1742
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he understood the First Lord of the Treasury to have stated that, with the assistance of the House, the Government would be able to take a dissolution of Parliament in the autumn. Now, the Reform Act of 1867 would not come into operation among the new constituencies until January 1, 1869, and he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed that the House should assist him by amending the Reform Act so that a dissolution might take place in the autumn? No doubt many new questions would be raised before the Revising Barristers which would result in appeals to the Court of Common Pleas. Many
 1724
 MR. DALGLISH  said, that having been one of those who opposed the scheme of these fortifications, he was gratified to find that the general opinion now was that they were a mistake. He wished the Government would consider whether it would not be better to delay for a time providing them with guns.
 MR. LOWE : I wish, Sir, before we pass from this subject, to be allowed to call attention a little more closely than has hitherto been done to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman as to his interviews with Her Majesty. I understood the right hon. Gentleman to say—and if I misrepresent him I hope he will be kind enough to correct me—that he advised Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament at once and to appeal to the old constituencies that are to be displaced by the Reform Act, and that he offered Her Majesty as an alternative that the Government should resign. "In fact," he said, "we tendered our resignations." Her Majesty, however, as I understand the right hon. Gentleman, refused both those propositions. She refused to dissolve Parliament at once, and she refused to accept the resignation of the Government. But, having refused these two things—I do not quite comprehend how it came about, for whether the suggestion proceeded from Her Majesty or from the right hon. Gentleman is left in ambiguity—somehow or other it came about that the proposition which the right hon. Gentleman is entitled to make to the
 1720 bonâ fide 1721 1722
 MR. LAING  observed that the discussion had hitherto been directed rather to the army and navy expenditure than to the question of Ways and Means. The broad situation was that, apart from the Abyssinian expenditure, the ordinary Estimates of expenditure had been increased by £3,000,000 or £4,000,000 during the last three or four years; and that not only had a surplus of £2,500,000 disappeared, but the balances had been reduced by about £1,000,000, excluding from the reckoning the Abyssinian outlay. That was not a satisfactory state of things. There were reasons apparent to every one why it would not be fair to charge this increased expenditure upon the present Government, and why a great portion of it
 1767
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he would cheerfully bow to the right hon. Gentleman's decision; but he had felt himself called upon to state that the Irish regarded the recent vote as grossly unjust.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that, to put himself in order, he would conclude by moving the adjournment of the House. He was sorry that the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) did not agree
 1718 1719
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not adopt a proposal which would amount to a reversal of the policy agreed upon in 1866.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he attributed the present excessive expenditure, to a great extent, to the outlay incurred in fortifications. The misfortune was that Parliament legislated on that subject during a panic. The House were now defraying the expense of that legislation; and it was very hard upon a Government which had not proposed the fortifications to have to incur the unpopularity of the Vote for arming them. According to the evidence of Sir Richard Airey before the Commission on Fortifications, when the embrasures in the fortifications had been made, there was not one gunner in the service, for every gun it was proposed to mount in them. As to the fortifications themselves, they somewhat resembled the towers which were seen in different parts of the country, and which were called So and so's "Folly." They were now erected, but it was quite worthy of consideration whether the Government should arm them with guns or not. Another Government, however, having built the forts, the House could not blame the present Government for proposing to put arms into them.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he was unable to see the great importance of what was termed an early dissolution. It implied that business would be slurred over, There would be an untimely "massacre of innocents," and the Scotch and Irish Reform Bills would be hurried through. Of course the question of the Irish Church must go before the new constituencies; but that was no reason why the present House of Commons should not dispassionately and thoroughly settle the other important questions now under the consideration of Parliament.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  explained that the two guns which cost £7,000 were exceptional guns; and though guns were now immensely dearer than they were twenty years ago, he should be sorry to have it supposed that the price paid for those two represented the average price of guns.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The right hon. Gentleman said it was a subject of discredit and dispraise to the present Government. I think I have some reason to complain that the right hon. Gentleman alluded to the Department under my superintendence. He said no small part of the discredit rested on the War Department. I must say it would have been fairer and more consistent with the usual practice of the House if the right hon. Gentleman had given some intimation of his intention to bring forward this subject. I had not the slightest idea that this subject would be mooted in the House of Commons this evening till I heard of it by mere accident half an hour before coming down to the House. The right hon. Gentleman intimated in the course of some former debate that he might draw attention to the subject; but then three Departments—the Army, the Navy, and the Treasury were involved. I hoped that if he had any exception to take to the administration of the Department with which I am connected, he would bring it forward in a straightforward manner, and not, as he has now done, without the ordinary notice which the courtesy of the House requires. I have Papers in my house which I could have brought down and made use of in answer to every charge he might think it proper to bring against the War Department, but to which I was utterly unable to turn at the moment. No Member of the House is bound to know what may have dropped in debate. We are accustomed to give proper notice on the Paper whenever any public Department is to be called in question. Some of the Papers to which I have alluded would not only have enabled me to meet the right hon. Gentleman's statement, but would have fully justified the expressions I used
 1754 1755 "Much of the expense incurred by the Ordnance Select Committee is inherent in the costly nature of the material now employed. Down to 1858 we had no gun in use that cost much more than £100; we have this year paid about £7,000 for two guns." 1756 "A charge of powder and shot rarely cost above 15 s., s., s. A laugh 1757 d. 1758
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am sure the Committee will allow me to offer some few remarks in answer to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, and in dying so I feel deeply sensible how efficient an advocate the right hon. Gentleman is for economy in the public service; and I can assure him I give him full credit for the efforts he has constantly made for reducing the national expenditure, except so far as I think those efforts have not been consistent with that support of our national armaments which he will himself admit to be one of the first duties of every Administration. The right hon. Gentleman charged the present Administration in no measured terms with systematic extravagance. That
 1753
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would inquire into the statement with regard to the testing of guns, which he confessed had a startling appearance. If he had been favoured with longer notice he would have done so in time for this discussion.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : A great deal of the expenditure was laid out, not in the manufacture of guns, but in various items rendered necessary in connection with their alteration.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When he proposes to nominate the Select Committee on County Financial Arrangements?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that the accounts were nearly completed, and the details would be laid on the Table as soon as possible. A small sum remained in hand which had not been expended.
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, instructions had been given to the Constabulary in cases where deaths occurred under the circumstances referred to by the hon. Member for Galway to cause an inquest to be held. Those instructions, however were confined to certain localities, with regard to which information had been received. But if it were desired that the instructions should be made general, he had no objecton whatever to that course.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Sir, when I moved for leave to introduce a Bill for the further extension of the Habeas Corpus Act there were ninety-six persons in confinement in Ireland under the Lord Lieutenant's warrant. I am happy to be able to state that this morning there were only twenty-three persons in confinement under the provisions of that Act, and, of those twenty-three, orders for the release of fourteen have already been made, on condition either that they leave the country or give solvent bail. As the House will see, there is reason to hope that before long any practical consequences of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland will have ceased.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, in reply, that the Admiralty had already in many instances given ships for the purposes specified by the hon. Gentleman, and would be glad to do so where this was possible and compatible with the public service. At the same time he must point out that, in many cases, the societies not only asked for the loan of ships, but required that these should be refitted, caulked, and otherwise repaired at very large cost, for which no provision could be made in the Naval Estimates.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether any regulations for the Army Reserve or Militia Reserve Forces have been made under the "Army Reserve Act, 1867," and the "Militia Reserve Act, 1867;" whether any instructions with reference to the latter force have been issued to Commanding Officers of Militia Regiments now called out for training; and, whether he will lay such regulations and instructions upon the Table of the House?
 MR. GLADSTONE : I rise. Sir, to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government which will require some explanation; and I will therefore commence by moving the adjournment of the House. I think the justification of that course will appear from the matter which I have to state. I did not expect, when I closed the remarks which I had to make to the House yesterday afternoon, on the subject of the Ministerial Explanations, that it would be my duty to revert to that matter at so early a date. But the character of the debate which took place in this House was unexpectedly altered by a remarkable declaration, withheld from us by the Prime Minister during the lengthened speech which he addressed to us at the commencement of the Sitting, and given in so enigmatical a manner and at such a period that neither my hon. Friends who sit about me, nor I myself, were in a condition to follow him or to comment upon that speech. But even that declaration, enigmatical as it was, does not constitute the whole, or even the main part, of the subject which I wish to bring under the notice of the Government and the House, and with respect to which I am about to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. I must remind the House briefly of what occurred with regard to an essential portion of the right hon. Gentleman's communication. The right hon. Gentleman told us at the commencement
 1788 1789 "I can only recapitulate imperfectly what my
 1790 Hansard, "And in the event of any difficulties arising, Her Majesty was graciously pleased to state that she would make no objection to a dissolution of Parliament."—[ Ibid. 1791 "It of course will depend upon the state of affairs whether that dissolution shall be a dissolution under the existing constituency, or whether it shall be a dissolution under the new constituency to be formed under the Reform Acts; but Her Majesty was graciously pleased to state that she would make no objection to either course being adopted by her Advisers whenever they should see fit to tender to Her Majesty a recommendation on that subject."—[3  Hansard, Cheers. 1792 1793
 MR. BRIGHT : As I do not wish the right hon. Gentleman to rise in order to explain again, I wish to ask him whether the recommendation made to Her Majesty referred to a dissolution with the present constituency?
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, he did not know whether he was the person alluded to by the hon. Gentleman. [Mr. OSBORNE: No; I never thought of you.] At all events, what he would say was, "Justice to all, and no surrender of the rights which belong to us." His object, however, in rising, was to remind the right hon. Member for South Lancashire that it was only on Thursday last he accused an hon. and gallant Friend of his of want of courtesy in asking questions without notice. Now, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether it was only the Leader of a factious Opposition, after a meeting of the party at his house, one of the would-be leaders of whom—the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie)—had lately called them "a rabble," who thought himself entitled to ask questions without notice; for it was evident from what had occurred that the right hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. Disraeli) had received no notice of the Question that had been asked.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he had another question to ask, which he thought the Government should answer—namely, Whether, if the Scotch and Irish Reform Bills were passed, a measure would be introduced whereby the registration under those Bills should be made in the autumn? The right hon. Gentleman proposed to go on with the Scotch and Irish Reform Bills, and immediately after to proceed to appeal to the new constituencies. He would ask, What, then, was the result of the vote of last Thursday, which was a Vote of Want of Confidence? It appeared to him that Her Majesty's Government had entirely disregarded the vote of Thursday last; and if the business of the House was brought to a deadlock, as the hon. Member
 1810
 SIR HENRY EDWARDS  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Graves), that it was high time that the private Members of the House, whether representing large or small constituencies, should speak out. When the present House of Commons was elected, nothing had been heard of the disestablishment or disendowment of the Irish Church. Reform was the great question of the hour, and it had remained so up to the present time. The English Bill had been passed, and the Government now asked the House to complete the Scotch and Irish measures and the Boundary Bills before venturing upon a dissolution, which might jeopardize its completion. On the new question of the Irish Church, the country had as yet had no opportunity of forming an opinion. On what grounds, and for what objects were these discussions continued then? During the past two or three days they had been maintained by some half-dozen hungry expectants of Office, and, if such a course were allowed to continue, the electors would justly complain that the whole of the most important business of the country was stopped, merely for the purpose of gratifying the ambition of certain right hon. Gentlemen. By such a course, however, they could probably remind their representatives that they were returned to legislate for the good of the country, and not until the right hon. Member for South Lancashire thought it necessary as a means to dislodge his great adversary from Office, for the personal interest of those who sought to obtain seats in a new Cabinet. It appeared to him that such an exhibition of faction was never before made by an Opposition, manifestly for the object of displacing one Government, and re-instating another.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I wish to make an explanation with regard to an observation of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, who found fault with me, not without some justice as far as the letter of the matter was concerned, for some words used by me this evening. I stated that it was not competent for me to speak last night after I had addressed the House once. That was not true in the letter, but it was true in the spirit. I followed the right hon. Gentleman last evening, and the Motion for the adjournment was not made till after I had spoken. I therefore thought I had lost my opportunity of speaking again, though, of course, I might have spoken again on the question of adjournment, as the right hon. Gentleman himself did.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am anxious to state, for the information and convenience of the House, a point in connection with my third Resolution. The third Resolution, in point of form, hangs upon the second Resolution, because it refers to "the purpose aforesaid"—namely, the purpose of preventing the growth of new vested interests and restraining the operation of Commissioners. I propose, for the convenience of the House, in order that the Address upon the third Resolution may contain the whole substance of the Resolutions, to insert words in the third Resolution which will bring in that part of the substance of the second Resolution which is necessary fully to express its sense.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Oh, certainly; most unquestionably. Besides putting them in print I wish to take this public opportunity of drawing attention to them. They will be in print to-morrow morning.
 COLONEL SYKES  referred to the experience of the East India Company, in connection with their great institution at Addiscombe, as illustrating how scientific education for the Engineers and Artillery might be combined with instruction for regimental positions. Addiscombe had sent out very many distinguished Artillery officers and Engineers to India, and among them was Sir Robert Napier, now commanding the army in Abyssinia, who went out very young. Some of the most distinguished Engineers that we had in India obtained their swords of merit by the time they were seventeen. He regretted to hear an hon. Gentleman complain that men went into the army too young. It was desirable that those who were intended for service in any country like India should go out at an early age, in order that they might get acclimatized, and might hold on. He himself had gone out at fourteen, he was under fire at fifteen, and he attributed his present advanced age and health to youthful acclimatization. He was glad to hear that the Commission was sanctioned, and if it were properly carried out, and due inquiry made as to the working of Addiscombe, he had no doubt that the result would be the combination of the two establishments al Woolwich and Sandhurst, not only with great efficiency, but also with great economy.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that annually a number of Native young men of the highest intellectual and mental calibre took degrees in India by passing similar examinations to those which were necessary to the conferring of the same degrees in this country. And yet men who exhibited such capacity and attained those degrees were excluded from the Civil Service of India unless they passed examinations in this country which were by no means so hard as those they had already gone through. This was the practice, in spite of the fact that the Vote for the Education of the Natives of India amounted to £904,190, or more than was at present expended in the same direction on the people of this country. He certainly thought that those Natives who obtained such degrees as those of B.A., M.A., and M.D. ought to be permitted at once to enter the Civil Service and not be compelled to come to England for the purpose of undergoing a fresh examination. Certainly it would be advantageous to Indian aspirants
 1851
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he was also opposed to the Amendment, believing that it would be worse than of no service to the Natives; but he believed the time was arriving, and educated people were accumulating so fast in India, and the self-respect and importance of the Native population were extending so rapidly, that some suitable and dignified positions must be obtained for them in our service, in order to ensure their attachment, instead of exciting their jealousy and resentment.
 MR. BOUVERIE : If a Member of this House wished to ascertain what had been stated by a Member of the Government in "another place," the proper course to take would be to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. My right hon. Friend does not sit in the other House, and consequently has no opportunity of questioning the Colleague of the right hon. Gentleman. He has, however, a legitimate and proper opportunity of questioning the right hon. Gentleman here, and why the right hon. Gentleman
 1797 1798 Cries of Regium Donum;
 MR. LIDDELL , speaking as an Independent Member, said, it was always a dangerous and hopeless task to attempt to carry on the Government in a minority of the House of Commons. The present occasion was one of extreme gravity, if not of danger—great and deplorable events had before now resulted from smaller beginnings; and, not being himself a strong partizan, he wished to make an appeal to both sides of the House. He regretted extremely that the resignation of Her Majesty's Ministers had not been accepted, because he could not see how they could continue to occupy their present position with either honour to themselves or advantage to the country. They all knew the acceptance or rejection of a proposal depended materially upon the shape in which the suggestion was preferred; and he thought that the name of the Sovereign had been brought forward on recent occasions too prominently, and that the First Minister had sheltered himself under that august name more than he was justified in doing. He wished to point out the danger of the present position of affairs. The name of the Sovereign had been used to retain in Office a Government pledged to a particular line of policy, which appeared to have been condemned by the House of Commons. It might be doubted — and possibly the result would prove that the doubt was well-founded — whether the opinion of the country was really in accordance with the expressed opinion of the House of Commons. Consequently, he rejoiced that the advice was proffered by the First Minister to Her Majesty of a dissolution; and he apprehended now that it might be an immediate dissolution. That being so, he wanted
 1817 in terrorem
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL , in rising to move an Address to the Crown, on the subject of Military Education, said, he brought forward a similar Motion two years ago, when, in a House of 284 Members, it was lost by 20. On that occasion he was supported by the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, by the Secretaries of State for the Home Department and for India, by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, besides other Members of Her Majesty's Government. On the other hand,
 1820 1821 1822 vivâ voce, 1823 1824 1825 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that a Royal Commission composed of Military and Civilian Members be appointed to inquire into the present state of Military Education in this Country, and more especially into the training of Candidates for Commissions in the Army, and into the Constitution, system of Education, and discipline of the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, and of the Royal Military College at Sandhurst, as well as into the rules and regulations under which Candidates are admitted into those Colleges."
 MR. O'REILLY  congratulated the noble Lord on his success, which rendered it unnecessary for him to detain the House with many observations. He wished, however, to draw two morals from the course of investigation which had been pursued on this subject. One was the great importance of perseverance. They were always told in making such a Motion that further inquiry was unnecessary, everything was already known, and it was idle, futile, to seek further inquiry. This subject had gone through these stages, just as that of recruiting had done. Another little moral related to the question how far the Government or the House of Commons were accountable for economy and efficiency in the expenditure of the country. It had been roundly stated that the House of Commons, having assented to the Estimates proposed by the Government, were fully as much accountable for the public expenditure as the Government who proposed them; and if there was any tiling to blame in the expenditure, it rested quite as much with the House of Commons as with the Government. He entirely dissented from the doctrine. It was impossible for the House of Commons in detail to enforce economy in the public expenditure. Even with regard to those military
 1833 1834
 MR. AYRTON  said, that, having listened attentively to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government yesterday, he had failed to understand the exact situation of affairs, which, therefore, might not be so well understood by other hon. Members and throughout the country as it ought to be. He had been enlightened by the statement made in "another place," and he had listened to the further explanations that had now been made, and he was now more confused than he was before any explanation was given. He was inclined to
 1802 1803
 MR. DISRAELI : What I complain of, and what has led to misapprehension, is that when a person in my position comes here and makes what he intends to be a clear and plain statement of what occurred, hon. Gentlemen rise up and interpose matters which really have nothing to do with the question — ["Oh, oh!"]—nothing to do with what I am stating. I have stated what occurred in that audi-
 1795 1796
 MR. DISRAELI : I address the House for the second time; but under the circumstances perhaps they will allow me to do so. It has been stated that the name of the Sovereign has been improperly introduced into these debates—not so by me. I have introduced that august name in the spirit of our Constitution, with the permission of Her Majesty, and I know well, in a manner which cannot be impugned. A great many questions have been addressed to me, varying in terms, but probably having the same end, and when they have been answered, a new one has been proposed, a new form of inquiry has been made, and then we have been charged with not replying. Now, I do not approve myself the mode by which the inquiry as to the conduct of the Government is made. It consists of bringing before the House—without any notice whatever—an extract from a newspaper report of observations alleged to have been made by one of my Colleagues in "another place," with whom by no possibility can I have had any communication on the subject, and then founding upon that extract a variety of inferences which have immediately been fixed upon me, as if I had committed myself to every conclusion which every speaker has thought it right to make. I shall not address myself to points like that, but to the great points of interest to the House. The advice that I gave to Her Majesty to dissolve
 1815 1816
 MR. DISRAELI : I should like to see those words in print.
 MR. DISRAELI : I would first observe that I had myself yesterday no wish whatever to again address the House; but pointed inquiries were made to me on particular heads, and it was necessary therefore that I should reply to them; and I had an opportunity of replying to them subsequently to my original statement, an hon. Gentleman having moved the adjournment of the House. That would have given the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone)—although he had spoken previously—an opportunity of speaking again. Therefore the remark of the right hon. Gentleman that he was silent and reticent then because the forms of the House would not allow of his noticing my observations really has no foundation. It was perfectly open to the right hon. Gentleman to make any comments whatever on any discrepancy which he may have thought he observed in my statements as to the audiences graciously accorded to me by Her Majesty. But the right hon. Gentleman was silent. I do not think that on subjects of this kind there ought to be any difference of opinion between the two sides of the House. It is for the interest and the honour of both sides of the House that on a matter of such grave import there should be no misunderstanding. We may all use expressions which are liable to misinterpretation; but I do unequivocally maintain that there was not the slightest difference — certainly not the slightest intentional difference—between my original and my subsequent statement as to what occurred at the audience which Her Majesty graciously
 1794
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the observations; of the hon. Gentleman are quite justified. It was considered expedient that the remedy required should not be included in the Boundary Bill as laid upon the table; but that, when the Measure had gone through Committee, I should, if necessary, propose a clause upon the subject. Of course, it is quite possible that the matter may have previously received the attention of the Committee upon the Bill.
 MR. NEATE  said, that having for two years been brought, in his capacity of Examiner, into contact with the candidates for the Indian Civil Service, he wished to make some brief remarks on the subject before the House. The question of competitive examinations was indirectly raised
 1852
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, with reference to his Answer of the 18th of February upon the same subject, When he will state what recommendations he is; prepared to make for the enfranchisement of "compound-householders in parishes not within existing borough boundaries, but which might be wholly or in part added to boroughs," and of whom the Boundary Commissioners report that "they will be precluded from qualifying as voters in the year 1869, unless some special provision is made for their protection?" He had understood the right hon. Gentleman on a former occasion to admit the importance of this question, and to state that it had not escaped the attention of the Government; but, finding no reference to the I matter in the Boundary Bill as laid upon the table, he felt it right to ask this question. ["Order!"]
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Speaker, Whether the direct allusions made that evening by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) to what had taken place in the House of Lords was in order?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, references had been made in the course of the discussion to noble Lords speaking in "another place" by name, and there had been quotations from the  ipsissima verba 1819
 MR. M'LAREN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CARDWELL : The right hon. Gentleman says that if anybody questions a statement that has been made, or supposed to have been made by one of his Colleagues, the logical course is to put a question to that Colleague himself. It appears to me that when we want to know whether the language of a Colleague of the right hon. Gentleman is the language of the collective Government, acknowledged, approved, and avowed by the right hon. Gentleman himself, and when we speak of transactions in which the right hon. Gentleman, and not his Colleague, took a part, whatever the logical course may be, the fair and straightforward course is to propround a question to the right hon. Gentleman himself, and if there is no mystery at the bottom of this matter there will be no difficulty in giving a simple answer to
 1800 "Her Majesty did not accept our resignations, and gave her unqualified assent to a dissolution of Parliament, without the least reference to old or new constituencies."—[3  Hansard, "We intend to conduct the affairs of the country so long as we are able to do so; and in the event of any difficulties arising Her Majesty was graciously pleased to state she would make no objection to a dissolution of Parliament. It, of course, will depend upon the state of affairs whether that dissolution shall be a dissolution under the existing constituency or whether it shall be a dissolution under the new constituency to be formed under the Reform Acts."—[3  Hansard, 1801
 MR. HORSMAN : I hope, Sir, the House will not allow itself to be led away from the important Question before it by matter unconnected with that question, but that we shall receive from the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government some further information with respect to the Audience with which he was honoured by Her Majesty last week, and as to the relations of the House to the Ministers of the Crown in consequence of the advice he gave, and the manner in which it was re-
 1808 1809
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he had expected to proceed with the Boundary Bill on Thursday; but, as that day had been given up to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire for his remaining Resolutions, he feared he should not be able to do so. Pie would, however, proceed with it on the earliest possible day.
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that the statement of the noble Duke in "another place" was perfectly plain, straightforward, and was expressed in language not so cautious and not so mystifying as that of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. The statement that the right hon.
 1799
 MR. TREVELYAN : Sir, I gather from the speech of my hon. Friend, with the spirit of which I cordially agree, that he has two principal objects in bringing forward this Resolution. First, he wishes, by placing the Natives of India in intellectual competition with our own countrymen, to vindicate their claims to mental superiority, and thereby to diminish the tone of disparagement and contempt which is too often adopted with regard to them; and, secondly, he aims at giving them a fair share in the administration of their own country. Now, Sir, if the House will lend me its attention, and I promise not to detain it long, I hope to be able to show that the first of these objects, so far from being furthered by the course which my hon. Friend calls on you to adopt, will, on the contrary, suffer from it a great and, what is more, an irremediable check; and that the second will be attained in a much more sure and satisfactory manner, by the course indicated in the Amendment which I have placed upon the Paper, and which the Government has since embodied in a Bill: a Bill to which, as a humble but sincere well-wisher to India, I beg to give my cordial approval. Sir, I deplore equally with my hon. Friend, the manner in which European settlers and planters, and, in too many cases, the younger officers of our army allow themselves to speak of their Indian fellow-subjects. As a proof of sincerity on this point, hon. Gentlemen will perhaps not think it impertinent in me to state that I once wrote a book, whose only merit consisted in its being a protest against the high-handed, overbearing, and unjust way in which many Englishmen spoke of and dealt with the population whom it was their special national mission to govern and to elevate; a protest which called down on me the vigorous denunciations of the Anglo-Indian Press. But, Sir, the policy of my hon. Friend, instead
 1844 1845 morale. 1846 1847 1848 employée 1849 1850
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Devonport (Mr. Chambers) that under the present system the minds of officers were emasculated by over education. He hoped that the Commission to be appointed would include this subject in their inquiries—that they would consider why the two institutions alluded to were required at all, and on what grounds young men did not enter the army at as early an age as they entered the navy.
 MR. WHALLEY  expressed his feeling that the circumstances before them, which were alleged as a difficulty, were in reality the reason why there should be an immediate dissolution of Parliament. The question of the disestablishment of the Irish Church involved the English Church as well, and the right hon. Gentleman had now an opportunity of obtaining an expression of the opinion of the country under the present constituencies on a larger scale than any Minister had enjoyed on any question upon record. He called upon the right hon. Gentleman to act upon the authority he had received from Her Majesty, by dissolving Parliament in spite of all consequences as soon as the immediate exigencies of Public Business could be provided for, and if the right hon. Gentleman did not adopt that course he (Mr. Whalley) should be prepared to support the right hon. Member for South Lancashire in a Vote of Want of Confidence, or in any other course he might pursue.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, with
 1786
 MR. FAWCETT , in rising to move a Resolution relative to Examinations for the East India Civil Service, said, that Her Majesty, in her Proclamation to the People of India in 1858, which had been looked upon as the charter of their liberties, declared it to be her will and pleasure
 1839 1840 vivâ voce, vivâ voce 1841 1842 1843
 MR. FAWCETT  explained that it was part of his scheme that successful competitors should reside two years in England.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he would not divide the House on his Motion. The right hon. Gentleman did not seem to impugn his Motion, but simply wished to try something else first. He should be doing an injustice to the question by now dividing, and he would have the opportunity of expressing his opinion when the Bill to which the Secretary of State for India had referred was before the House. He should support a scheme to enable the Natives to take a part in the government of their country. The Amendment, indeed, was not antagonistic to his proposal. It was simply to enable officers to pass from the Uncovenanted to the Covenanted service without coming to England to pass an examination. At the same time he thought that the people of India would not be satisfied at their being obliged to spend so many years in the Uncovenanted Service before they could enter the Covenanted, when, if they came to England and passed the examination, they could enter at once. All that the proposition of the Government meant was to admit persons that the Governor General thought fit to enter the Covenanted Service, and he thought that that would not be quite satisfactory to the people of India.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether, considering the present tranquil state of Ireland, he conceives it necessary to keep prisoners arrested under the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act any longer in confinement; and, whether he will state to the House the number at present under confinement under the above Act?
 MR. SPEAKER : The rule of the House is, that allusion to debates in the other House of Parliament should not be made in this. It would have been competent to the hon. Member to have risen to order, if he had thought fit this evening; but it is scarcely possible that, under all circumstances, the rule can be construed in an absolutely literal manner. When declarations have been made by Ministers of the Crown, particularly as affecting the position of this House, exceptions have been made to the strict observance of this particular rule.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the rule of the House was that allusion to debates in the other House was not in order; but it was hardly possible that under all circumstances that rule could be absolutely and literally complied with, especially when declarations had been made by Ministers of the Crown on points affecting the position of the House of Commons.
 COLONEL NORTH , referring to a Committee appointed on his Motion many years ago said, there was hardly a distinguished officer of the Royal Artillery and Engineers examined who did not express the opinion that the ages for admission into the Engineer and Artillery corps should be lowered, and that the educational test should be lowered also. The question was put whether the test now required from the officers was necessary for the daily performance of their duties, and the answer was that it was not. With regard to the entrance of officers into regiments of the Line, many of them began their duties as subalterns when they ought to be captains. He was delighted his noble Friend had succeeded in his object, because the state of Sandhurst College had been most extraordinary, boys of fourteen being in the same categrory with young men of seventeen and eighteen; and there must be great difficulty in framing rules suitable to these two classes. He hoped the Royal Commission would be able to take these points into consideration, and that some steps would be adopted by which such proceedings as his noble Friend had adverted to would no longer prevail.
 MR. J. STUART MILL , in moving for leave to introduce two Bills, one for the purpose of providing for the establishment of Municipal Corporations in the Metropolis, and the other for the creation of a Corpora-
 1860 1861 Code Napoleon, Code Civil. 1862 1863
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  pointed out that the inquiry which had been promised was of a small and limited nature, and expressed his regret that it was not to be larger and wider. Speaking from his experience at the military College of Sandhurst, he must express his opinion that the education of officers with respect to general attainments was now placed on too high a standard. That standard would not secure for the country, active, courageous, and able regimental officers in the general service. His dread was that many most excellent young men, most competent to be regimental officers, would be excluded from the army by reason of the competitive examination. At a former period men who could not at the present day have passed the competitive examination distinguished themselves in the Peninsular War, some of them attaining the highest rank, fighting well, proving excellent regimental officers, and maintaining in most difficult times the honour of the British flag. It was not alone a knowledge of mathematics, or of history, or of many other things he might mention, that was required by a military officer. On the contrary, he thought that a man might have his mind over-crammed with general knowledge, and be thereby less fitted for the performance of his duties than would otherwise be the case. He had himself been educated at Sandhurst, and much did he owe to the education he received there; but he remembered that at that time of day the students were taught how to load and manage a gun, but they were not allowed to use powder. Some time after that they were instructed in riding, which was doubtless a very necessary part of their training, but this was not done while he was in the school. The grand object should be to investigate the question as to what education was respectively required for regimental officers, for Engineer and Artillery officers, for staff officers and commanders of high rank; and nothing could be more mischievous than that a young man should, after a
 1837
 MR. OSBORNE : I freely grant that the hon. Member for Liverpool, who has just resumed his seat, is an apt type of the purity and placidity of this House. But when he says that he is about to pour oil upon this debate, I must say—and with his commercial knowledge he will recognize the article—that there is an oil called petroleum, which has anything but calming effects upon the surface on which it is poured. When the hon. Gentleman undertakes to lecture Members on this (the Opposition) side in good round words upon the position of affairs, and talks of the stop which has been put to private business, I think he might have taken larger views, and recollected that there are questions of such great public import that a Member, whether private or having held an official capacity, is quite warranted in coming forward and expressing his opinion upon them. I do not wish to lay any stress upon ducal declarations in "another place." They are generally confused, and frequently ungrammatical. If I want an ex-
 1806 1807
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government that last year he said, in reference to the Reform Bill, "Pass the Bill, and then, if you please, turn out the Ministry;" and he now asked the right hon. Gentleman to keep his word.
 MR. LOWE : I cannot persuade myself that it is the wish of hon. Gentlemen in this House, not even of the hon. Members for Liverpool and Beverley (Mr. Graves and Sir Henry Edwards), that this discussion should come to an end without some answer having been given to the Questions put by my right hon. Friend at the beginning of the evening; and it is only as a forlorn hope, and on the adventuresome expedition of trying once more to get an answer to that Question, that I trouble the House for one moment. I do not offer any comment on the subject now; but I entreat hon. Gentleman opposite, out of regard for their own character, out of regard for the august name which has been dragged into this debate, out of regard for the character of this House and what will be thought of us in the country, not to have it said that a simple, straightforward Question has been put to the Government and that the Go-
 1813 1814 "The result is that we still occupy the same position we did before, and intend to conduct the affairs of the country so long as we are able to do so; and in the event of any difficulties arising Her Majesty was graciously pleased to state that she would make no objection to a dissolution of Parliament. It, of course, will depend upon the state of affairs whether that dissolution shall be a dissolution under the existing constituency, or whether it shall be a dissolution under the new constituency to be formed under the Reform Act; but Her Majesty was graciously pleased to state that she would make no objection to either course being adopted by her Advisers whenever they should see fit to tender to Her Majesty a recommendation on that subject."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. GRAVES : I would not have risen at the present moment if I were not ac-actuated by a strong feeling, which I believe to be shared by many of the Independent Members of this House, and I hope that they will not hesitate to express their opinion upon the present aspect of affairs. If I have hitherto remained silent on the obstruction to the business of this House which is caused by these discussions, it is not because the questions which now occupy so much of our time might not have been as well dealt with at the close of the Session, when they would not have stood
 1804 1805
 MR. WHITBREAD  said he wished, as a humble Member of the House, to add his protest to that of his right hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Bouverie), when he denounced the impropriety of introducing the name of the Sovereign in the way in which it had been done by the Prime Minister.
 1811 1812
 MR. ACLAND  submitted that if there was one point more than another which required attention in connection with this question, it was the great secret of know-
 1838
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would now beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he is about to give instructions to the Constabulary in the case of deaths from smallpox, caused by inoculation, to endeavour to procure an inquest to be held, in order, if possible, to obtain a conviction for manslaughter, or for an offence against the Vaccination Act?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he will lay before the House the detail of the expenditure of the sum levied over Ireland to meet preliminary expenses in anticipation of the cattle plague?
 MR. MONSELL  wished to say a few words with reference to the somewhat disparaging remarks of the right hon. Gentleman on the system of competitive examination at Woolwich. Experience proved that system to be a complete success both intellectually and morally. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for War had spoken of the cramming establishments, as if the system of cramming and the demoralization consequent upon its adoption were naturally connected with the system of competitive examination. Taking into consideration the number of cadets that had formerly to be sent away from the Woolwich establishment on account of the immorality that prevailed there, and the entreaties which were often formerly made by some of those cadets whose minds had remained uncontaminated to be taken away from that sink of vice, he thought the improvement which had been introduced into that establishment by the adoption of the system of competitive examination was enormous. With regard to the proposed amalgamation of Sandhurst and Woolwich, in a former debate difficulties were suggested that still existed with as much force as ever. It was clear that if they were amalgamated, by far the greater proportion of pupils would be destined for the Line, and not for the scientific corps; and the necessary and natural result would be that education would be conducted with regard to the requirements of the non-scientific rather than the scientific corps. On the question of reducing the age at which pupils were admitted, he would urge them to look at the practice in other countries. There was in France an institution corresponding to that suggested by the noble Lord, for the general education of cadets, and yet, although pupils were admitted to the Ecole Polytechnique
 1831
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK , referring to the late Sir George Wetherall, said, that officer seemed to have been placed at the head of Sandhurst, not because he was known to possess abilities as a teacher, but in order to reward him as a military man. But if it was intended to reward or honour a man it should be done directly, and not by placing him in a position for which he was not specially qualified. He found that Sandhurst cost £36,731 a year, and there were taught 300 cadets. He would ask any man accustomed to teaching, whether that was not a very large sum to pay. Again, Woolwich cost £38,581 for teaching 200 cadets. At Sandhurst, 300 cadets had 162 professors, teachers, and servants to look after them; and, at Woolwich, for 200 cadets, there were 149 professors, teachers, and servants to discharge similar duties. And yet it appeared from what had fallen from the noble Lord that these young men, notwithstanding all this looking after, were in the habit of going out to smoke, drink, and play billiards. The House could understand from that how it was that riots had occurred. One might expect that all these professors would be able to keep the young men in better order. There was one question which he
 1835
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had no objection to make to the creation of municipal bodies for those parts of the metropolis which are now without them—such as Westminster and Chelsea; but the great difficulty would be with the central body, and how that difficulty was to be overcome the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stuart Mill) had not satisfactorily explained. How he was to reconcile the powers of the Corporation of the City of London with those of the Metropolitan Board of Works, or in what manner both bodies were to be amalgamated, the hon. Gentleman had omitted to say. The City of London was one of the most ancient institutions of the country, and claimed exclusive jurisdiction within its own limits; and the City was the only representative body in this great metropolis. Supposing a Princess of Wales or the Sultan were coming into London, the City, headed by the Lord Mayor, was the only body to receive them. Before the Bill proceeded further a considerably larger amount of information would be required by the House than the general philosophical principles which the hon. Member for Westminster had laid before them.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON , on the part of the Secretary of State, had to say that the Government would offer no opposition to the introduction of the Bills, considering that they would conduce to the ultimate satisfactory settlement of the question if marked, as he was sure they would be, by that careful consideration of the subject which all would expect at the hands of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Boundaries Bill would be brought on?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that regulations had been made under both Acts. Those regulations would be issued immediately, and laid on the table of the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had been rather misunderstood. Speaking generally as to the competitive system he did not wish to say it had produced bad effects at Woolwich; on the contrary, as far as he had heard, he accepted the statement of the right hon. Gentleman that the results at Woolwich were quite as good as they had been before its introduction.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am afraid my experience in connection with the army and military matters is not sufficient to justify me in pronouncing opinions to which any value can be attached on the various questions raised by the speech and Motion of my noble Friend; but when my noble Friend gave notice of this Motion I felt it my duty to give my most careful attention to the consideration of the subject; and I accordingly consulted a considerable number of those military men of long experience and high authority in whose judgment I felt I could confide. The result of my reflection and inquiry has been that I consider it my duty to accede to my noble Friend's Motion. I am quite sure that every Gentleman now present will feel that no apology was necessary on the part of my noble Friend for bringing forward a subject to which he has given great attention, and which he has now introduced to the House in a speech of great clearness; and, although he terms the subject a very dry one, I must differ more from him on that point than on the merits of the Motion, for, whatever our individual opinions on it may be, everyone must acknowledge that it relates to a subject bearing in the most direct and important manner on the interests of the army. Such inquiries as I have been able to make convince me that
 1826 1827 1828 1829 1830
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  wished to say a word with respect to the canteen established at Sandhurst, which had been referred to by the noble Lord. That canteen was opened for the purpose of supplying coffee, beer, and other things by way of luncheon and ordinary refreshment, but not spirits, to the cadets out of hours, and the object was to keep them from the temptation of the public-house. Billiard tables were established like racket-courts, with the view of giving the young men amusement and keeping them from low houses, where evil associates were likely to be picked up. He wished to express his satisfaction at the success of his noble Friend's Motion, and at the spirit in which the Secretary of State intended to meet it by recommending Her Majesty to issue a Royal Commission. The state of Sandhurst and Woolwich ever since he had any knowledge of them had been very unsatisfactory, and that was owing to a matter which had not been mentioned during the discussion. The fact was the young men were, for the most part, put four or five together into rooms; there was not much more moral supervision over them than over soldiers in a barrack; and they were not looked after in the way that boys were at Eton, Harrow, or any other of our public schools. That was a great defect. The professors, who were many of them very able men, when they had finished their lessons, had nothing further to do with the cadet; and, though the officers who were placed over them did undoubtedly look after the young men according to their view of their duty, and a natural view it was, yet the moral influence which was found so salutary, and which tutors exercised over boys at public schools, was wanting. Military men for the most part were not suited to be schoolmasters, because the business of the schoolmaster was one to which they had not been brought up; but, though absolutely necessary as teachers of technical matters, such as military history and fortification, he must give his candid opinion that, as far as the tone of moral conduct went, they made very bad schoolmasters. His noble Friend wanted to establish a University which every one who went into the army should
 1836
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reference to remarks from the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, said, he certainly did not understand his right hon. Friend to propose a reference to the Committee of matters under the jurisdiction of the Crown.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : My right hon. Friend the Member for the city of Oxford (Mr. Cardwell), has put an intelligible and very simple question, to which the Government are able to give a very intelligible and simple reply. But the question as it was originally put by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone) was one which it was not perfectly easy to understand, and still less easy to answer. The question as it was put had reference to what had been said by my noble Friend (the Duke of Richmond) in "another place." My right hon. Friend the First Minister had not read or seen the report of what the Duke of Richmond had said; and I may say for myself, that I also had not seen it; but a question has; now been put by the right hon. Member for the City of Oxford to which the Government have not the smallest difficulty in giving an answer. The right hon. Gentleman asks, whether it is to be understood that the Government hold out to the House any menace of a dissolution. ["No, no!"] It will be in the recollection of the House whether that was not the question of the right hon. Gentleman. We were asked, unless I misunderstood the right hon. Gentleman, this question, whether it was to be understood, in the account which my right hon. Friend had given of his interview with Her Majesty, and of Her Majesty's expressions of approval of the recommendation that had been made to her, that a menace was held out to this House by which the House was to be considered to proceed to wind-up the business which now lies before it under the threat of a dissolution. I say at once, on the part of the Government, there was no intention of that sort, and that no such menace was held out.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it was not without some regret that he felt himself obliged to oppose the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton, for in the object aimed at he was disposed to agree very much with the hon. Gentleman, as he naturally desired to promote, as far as possible, the employment of Natives of India in the Civil Service and government of that country. He was con-
 1853 vivâ voce vivâ voce vivâ voce 1854 1855 rationale 1856 1857 morale 1858 1859
 MR. BRUCE  said, he wished to point out that although the Bill had met with general approval as to its principle, it was so framed that it either left unsettled, or settled on different principles, the subject of the rating of mines. He was not satisfied that Clause 5 was founded on a just principle. The just principle seemed to be that now in force—namely, that the actual value from year to year of the property should be estimated fairly. Uniformity, above all things, was needed; if deductions from gross value were to be allowed in the case of copper and tin mines, why should they not be allowed in the assessment of coal mines? It seemed to him to be monstrous that a tin mine in full operation and making good returns should be rated on more favourable terms than a
 1869
 MR. VIVIAN  said, he agreed that it would be desirable to rate all mines on the same principle without exception. The principle of assessment in South Wales at present was most unjust. Coal mines in that district were rated on profits. In no other trade was this principle followed; and in the case of mines it was especially unjust, because the  corpus 1871
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he should support the Bill, the principle of it being to bring mines which had not hitherto been within the purview of rating within such scope. On the general question of rating there could be no greater public benefactor than the person who would invent such a definition of the mode of rating as might be easily applied, not only to coal mines, but to other descriptions of property. The difficulty of carrying out the existing rules was so great that they could scarcely be acted upon by any two lawyers in the same manner. He thought, the hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill had done well to confine himself to a practical object; and he would endeavour to assist him in any way he could to make the present Bill a satisfactory measure.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that on the part of the Government he would not object to the second reading of the Bill, because he believed that his hon. Friend had hit upon one defect in the present state of the law, and that his Bill provided a remedy for it. He meant that part of the present law which provided that no appeal should be lodged in the House of Lords while that House was not sitting. He regretted that he could not go further in his support of the Bill. When the other matters came under the consideration of the Committee he must hold himself free to object to the clauses. An appeal on a decree or rule  nisi
 MR. HEADLAM  was sorry that the Government had limited their support to such a narrow portion of the Bill. He had read the Bill and he could not see what objection there could be to its provisions, the whole of which had no other object than to stop unnecessary delay.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he had some new clauses on the Paper,
 1876
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  moved, in Clause 3, line 12, to leave out from the word "lessee" to "premises," and insert—
 "The expression 'owner,' in addition to the definition given by the Land Clauses Act, hereafter incorporated with this Act, in reference to any premises, shall include all the owners, if more than one, of any premises or estate, or interest in any premises required to be dealt with under this Act."
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, the Amendment had not originated with him, but with the Select Committee. In no part of the metropolis did he get so much support for his Bill as in the City of London.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he agreed with the principle of the Bill, and as it proposed to make mining property rateable, and to have the rates levied in the same way as the highway rate, he would take occasion to point out the necessity that existed for altering the present mode of assessing highway rates. If the Bill were passed it would raise more pointedly than ever the question whether the highway rates should be wholly payable out of the real property of the country. By the present law a clergyman with a small glebe had to pay a heavy highway rate, whilst his neighbour, a rich brewer, who resided within the borough, and used the highway in the prosecution of his business, had no rate to pay. He hoped Parliament would remedy the grievance in the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  thanked the House for the manner in which the Bill had been received. Nothing would give him greater satisfaction than that the Government should take charge of the Bill. If it remained in his hands, he should attend to the suggestions of his right hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil (Mr. Bruce) and his hon. Friend the Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Vivian). He would take care that the Preamble should be made to apply equally to all mines whether of salt, metal, or coal.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time said, its object was to secure a more equitable distribution of local taxation than existed at present. The Bill before the House imposes further taxation; but until property now exempted from taxation is made to bear a fair share of the burdens of the country, the people would object to any increase of those burdens. The natural objection to taxes of every description was augmented, and the opposition to any proposed increase of local taxation was made more earnest in consequence of the inequality with which the rates were imposed. It had been objected that the Preamble of the Bill did not correctly recite the present
 1865 Will. 1866 1867
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  said, respecting the wish for uniformity of assessment, that the difficulty of dealing with the 5th clause, as far as it affected Derbyshire, could be appreciated only by those who knew what a happy state of things existed there in consequence of the agreement already referred to. The mines of Derbyshire had always been rated. The assessment was made on the royalty paid to the Duchy of Lancaster, and the rate was paid by the Duchy; so that the parish actually got more from the mines than it would get if the occupier were rated, because the poorer miners would, of necessity, have to be excused. He suggested something in the nature of a Bill for compounding mining rates; if that could be managed the Derbyshire arrangement might stand.
 MR. AYRTON  said his hon. Friend the Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid) who was now absent from the House, had no desire to press the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would confine his Amendment to the question of authority, leaving untouched the question of taxation.
 MR. AYRTON  moved to leave out from "The city of London and the Liberties thereof" to the end of line 10. The matter had been discussed on a previous occasion, and as the attendance in the House was now so small he should not press his Motion, though he wished to
 1877
 MR. AYRTON  disclaimed any intention of interfering with the taxation of the metropolis. His object was to declare that the Metropolitan Board of Works should have the authority for carrying out the Bill throughout the whole Metropolis. It was his intention to move that the Bill be re-committed.
 MR. BAGNALL  said, he could not understand why woodlands and plantations should escape rating and coal mines be made the victims. The argument that woodlands and plantations were exempted in order not to check the growth of the timber for the purposes of the Royal Navy, did not apply in the present day.
 MR. PUGH  said, he had great pleasure in voting for the second reading of this Bill, as, independently of its other recommendations, it was not only founded on the Report of the Select Committee of the House of Lords—which resolved that it was expedient that all mines should be assessed, as coal mines now were, inasmuch as their exemption from rates was founded on no sound principles, but was also in accordance with a strong opinion expressed by a Court of Law of high authority—the Court of Exchequer Chamber, in the case of "Crease  v.
 MR. CORRANCE  thought the hon. Member deserved the thanks of the House for bringing the matter forward. He approved the principle of the Bill though he thought some modifications of its details would be necessary in Committee. But with reference to the whole subject of rating he complained that no principle had yet been fixed on by the Legislature as the basis for any rate at present existing. The law had come into its present state by a course of fortuitous legislation and accidental judgments, and the sooner it was thoroughly examined and re-modelled on a definite principle the better it would be for all concerned. He hoped on an early day to call the attention of the House to the subject.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the effect of the Amendment evidently was to increase the taxation of the City of London.
 MR. WYLD  said, he thought that the principle laid down in Clause 6 of the Bill ought to be adhered to.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that by the operation of the 6th clause all mines rated after the passing of the Bill would
 1870
 MR. CANDLISH  took the same view as the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it seemed to him that the Amendment would have this effect — that improvements undertaken beyond the limits of the City of London
 1878
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  thought it was hardly just that the whole of the metropolis should be taxed throughout, with the exception of the City of London, for improvements effected under the Bill.
 MR. LOCKE  said, it was simply a question whether the Board of Works or the Corporation should carry out the Act. It was not a question of taxation; but a fanciful one, of pride, on the part of the City, which did not like to be interfered with.
 MR. LOCKE  said, it was the City of London that really created the working classes of the metropolis, as it was the great employer of labour. The City supplied poor to the whole metropolis, and it should not therefore seek to be exempted from the general rate.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he approved that portion of the Bill which required the appeal to be lodged after the pronouncing of the decree  nisi. nisi
 MR. KENDALL  said, that many years since he endeavoured to pass a Bill for the rating of mines, but the difficulties were so great that he had to abandon it. In Cornwall all parties had agreed that it was but fair and just that mines should be rated, and that the whole expense should fall on the owners of the mines. He was at a loss to understand why such an arrangement should be a cause of complaint with other counties. He warned the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Percy Wyndham) against endeavouring to pass the 5th clause in a form objectionable to Cornish interests and contrary to the report of the Select Committee upon the rating of mines. He should assist in every way to make the Bill workable, but unless a fair and just principle was applied to the case of the Cornish people, he should oppose the third reading.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, it was a mistake for the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets to say that the City of London would save anything by not being subject to the rate which would be levied by the Board of Works.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, that when persons sought for privileges and exemptions they were bound to make out a strong case. He should not resist the proposal to rate the lessors instead of the lessees; but he was at a loss to know why the great mines of Devonshire should be rated upon a different principle to the coal mines of Northumberland; and, in behalf of his constituents in the North, he should in Committee offer his most uncompromising opposition to any clause proposing exemptions in favour of any particular districts.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, that originally the City of London was a walled city, and consequently contained a greater number of lanes and alleys than any other part of the metropolis, and there could be no injustice in allowing the City to put the Bill in force themselves.
 MR. W. H. LEATHAM  said, he had been requested by his constituents to oppose the second reading of this Bill; but after the explanation of the hon. Member for West Cumberland (Mr. Percy Wyndham) he should not do so, but confine his objections to the 6th clause, by which all mines were to be rated, under the Local Government Act, and Local Improvement Act, at one-fourth of their value. His constituents considered this a most unjust provision of the Bill, because in the borough which he represented (Wakefield) the coal measures extended under the town, and there was a great traffic of coal carts through the streets, thereby damaging the pavement and sometimes even crushing in the gas-pipes; and to rate the coalpits at only one-fourth of their value was to make them contribute a less share towards the repair of the streets than was reasonable. He hoped
 1872
 MR. C. FORSTER , in moving that this Bill be now read the second time, said, that its object was to get rid of the delay which now occurred in the despatch of business in causes of divorce. In any case delay in legal proceedings was a source of annoyance and expense, but in no branch of the law could the evil thus caused be more seen than in suits for the dissolution of marriage. It was desirable to make the proceedings, when once commenced, as expeditious as possible. At present, even in undefended cases, suitors are unable to obtain a decree dissolving the marriage under two years. The delay need not exist if the House would agree to the three propositions contained in the Bill. The first proposition was to shorten the time allowed for appealing against the decisions or rules  nisi nisi, nisi nisi 1874
 Mr. GOLDNEY  moved to insert at the end of Clause 4—
 "And for the purposes of this Act the term 'the promoters of the said undertaking' used in those Acts shall mean the local authority as defined by the Act."
 MR. ST. AUBYN , in seconding the Motion, said, he entirely approved of, and concurred in, the principle of the Bill. Many meetings had taken place in Cornwall with reference to the Bill; and although there were small differences as to the details of the measure, yet all classes—agricultural, town, and mining — had unanimously come to the conclusion that mining property ought no longer to be exempted from contributing its fair and just proportion to the local rates.
 MR. PEASE  said, he did not rise to oppose the second reading of the Bill. Two years ago he admitted that mines ought to be rated; but he was exceedingly opposed to rushing headlong into legislation upon the subject; for there were many difficulties to be considered. He objected to mineral mines being rated as coal mines now were; because no fixed principles were acted on in the case of coal mines; and he contended that the amendment should be conducted in accordance with a fixed system applicable to all mines. A Return made on the Motion of the hon. Member for Whitby (Mr. Bagnall) showed how utterly opposed to reason was the practice which had grown up in respect of the rating of coal mines. The 3rd clause, relating to the deductions to be made from the gross value to find the net rent, seemed adapted to give rise to innumerable lawsuits; it would be far better if a definite rate of deduction were, fixed upon for the purpose, He also objected to Clause 5 as far as it set up a different standard for different counties. No doubt the miners of Cornwall and Devon deserved every consideration the House could give under the circumstances; but it would be very unfair if they were relieved altogether from liability to pay local rates. As, however, ordinary principles of assessment were not applicable to mines, he would suggest that an increased deduction should be allowed in the case of mines commercially hazardous.
 MR. BAZLEY , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, its object was to provide accurate statistics of the cotton trade, by taking steps to procure correct information of all the cotton which
 1875
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : The right hon. Baronet has asked me what are the duties and emoluments of the Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. In answer to the first part of the Question, I may say that the Lord High Commissioner represents
 1885
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that the Herring Fishery (Scotland) Act 1867, was passed in accordance with recommendations of the Royal Commissions of 1863 and 1866. The official information which had reached him as to the working of the Act was favourable, both as regarded the quantity of fish taken and as to the cessation of those acts of violence which had frequently resulted from the enforcement of the prohibitions against trawling. He had therefore no intention of introducing a measure to repeal the Act of last Session.
 MR. VERNER : Sir, I have to apologise to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire for asking him a Question, of which I have not had an opportunity of giving him Notice; but I should like to know, Whether his attention has been directed to the report of the speeches made by certain right rev. Prelates appointed by the Government of which the right hon. Gentleman was a distinguished Member, which speeches were made yesterday at St. James's Hall; and, if so, whether, after the opinions they have expressed, he intends to press on his measures for the destruction of the Irish branch of the United Church of England and Ireland?
 MR. GLADSTONE  made no reply.
 MR. GLADSTONE , in rising to move the second Resolution, said: Sir, now that I am on my legs, let me say one word in answer to the Question of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Verner). ["No. no!"] I did not wish to answer that Question at the moment, because I own I thought it was beyond the line of Parliamentary practice; but, at the same time, I think the substance of the Question of the hon. Gentleman was such that, if he choose to put it to me in Committee, it would be a perfectly proper one from his point of view; and therefore, as I do not wish to be guilty of any discourtesy, I will answer it. In a free country like this, when the minds of men are deeply stirred and actively at work on a question such as the one now before us, I am not surprised that some men of eminence and excellence should not agree in, but, on the contrary, should disapprove the course which, impelled by a sense of public duty, I feel called upon to take; but I cannot on that account be discouraged when I see that the majority of this House, in the course they have adopted with respect to the Irish Church, are supported by the warm and very general judgment of the country. I intend to say not one word in regard of the general discussion. I only rise now because, though the Resolution which I am
 1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 Primâ facie, 1893 "That, in certain cases where appointments to Benefices are to be suspended under the Act, it shall be in the power of the Commissioners, together with the Bishops, to appoint to the parish a curate, and to assign to the curate such moderate remuneration—'moderate' is the epithet used—such moderate remuneration and allowance as shall seem becoming." 1894 Will. "Should accept and take it subject to all the regulations and alterations affecting the same which might be afterwards made and provided by and under the authority of Parliament, and should not by his appointment acquire any vested interest in such office, or any title to compensation in respect thereof." "2. That, subject to the foregoing considerations, it is expedient to prevent the creation of new personal interests by the exercise of any public patronage, and to confine the operations of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of Ireland to objects of immediate necessity, or such as involve individual rights, pending the final decision of Parliament."—( Mr. Gladstone.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am only anxious, in proposing the third Resolution, to explain what is a point of form, but, at the same time, a point of form by no means unimportant. I am aware, and many Members of the House must be aware, that, according to the rules of the House of Commons, it would be competent to a Member to introduce into the House, with leave from the House, a Bill which might affect the rights of the Crown without the previous Assent of the Crown having been obtained. Such things have been done on certain occasions by a Government when it has happened, from the smallness of the subject-matter or from inadvertence, that notice has not been taken of the fact previous to the introduction of the Bill; and, again, Bills of that nature have been introduced by individuals not belonging to the Government, even when they were Bills to which the Government did not assent, and have been passed through certain of their stages without the giving of that Assent on the part of the Crown—it always being understood, however, that neither this House nor the House of Lords would ever consent to pass the Bill, or to part with it, until, at one of its stages, that Assent had been received. But, Sir, in this instance, the case is different. The interest of the Crown is in this case not merely a proprietary interest, but one of wide and farreaching import; and also this is a Bill which, although it is not proposed by the Government, would be, I may say, proposed
 1899 "Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to place at the disposal of Parliament her interest in the temporalities of the Archbishoprics, Bishoprics, and other Ecclesiastical Dignities and Benefices in Ireland, and in the custody thereof." "3. That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, humbly to pray that, with a view to preventing, by legislation during the present Session, the creation of new personal interests through the exercise of any public patronage, Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to place at the disposal of Parliament, Her interest in the temporalities of the Archbishoprics, Bishoprics, and other Ecclesiastical Dignities and Benefices in Ireland, and in the custody thereof."—( Mr. Gladstone.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The right hon. Gentleman has represented me with perfect truth. I adverted to the liberty which, as I said, the House frequently gives to its Members, but which I did not, I added, intend to claim; but I never made any assumption whatever as to the particular nature of the advice which the Government might think it proper to give to Her Majesty, or as to the answer which the Crown might give to the Address, and it would have been highly improper had I done so.
 THE CHAIRMAN , as to the point of Order raised by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, must remind the Committee that, by the Order of the House, they were then in Committee on the Acts relating to the Irish Church, and therefore they were not in Committee on the Acts relating either to Maynooth or the  Regium Donum.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I wish to make this observation in regard to this Resolution, that it is one of a very different character—I am not now expressing an
 1909 Regium Donum "And that no part of the secularized funds of the Anglican Church, or any State funds whatever, be applied"—mark the words—"in any way, or under any form, to the endowment or furtherance of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland, or to the establishment or maintenance of Roman Catholic denominational schools or colleges." 1910
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the hon. Member
 1914 Regium Donum, Regium Donum Regium Donum, Regium Donum,
 MR. GLADSTONE : My hon. Friend who moved this Resolution (Mr. Aytoun), made an appeal to Her Majesty's Government which was not answered, and in consequence of that appeal I did not rise to address the House, because I did not consider that I am in a position which renders me principally responsible for the conduct of the business of the House. Though that may be so, yet I have undertaken, I must tell my hon. Friend, a very great responsibility in the face of the House and of the country. There is no man who will be more deeply disgraced than myself if, owing to any weakness, rashness, or cowardice on my part, this great undertaking should break down. But, on the other hand, my obligation extends to this point — carefully to separate myself, at whatever risk of misunderstanding, from any proceeding which appears to me deliberately to alter injuriously the due course and order in which, if we are to have any successful dealing with a question so great and complicated as this, we
 1915 Regium Donum, 1916
 MR. GLADSTONE : I also beg pardon. But my hon. Friend distinctly stated at the close of his speech that he wished to know completely my views upon this question.
 MR. GLADSTONE : My hon. Friend does not ask me to give a plan. In the place where I stand it is not competent for me to form one; it would be the height of rashness for me to do so. There is no grant at present that I know of to the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, except that conveyed by the Maynooth Act, and that Act I have already said, in my opinion, must be repealed. My hon. Friend asks me—
 "Whether it is part of my plan, as an equivalent to the glebes and glebe houses proposed by me to be reserved to the future incumbents of the Anglican Church, to give glebes and glebe houses, or any other equivalent, to the parish priests of the Roman Catholic communion?" 1917 Regium Donum. Regium Donum "That when the Anglican Church in Ireland
 1918 1919
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  confessed he had no timorous feelings regarding the reduction of the franchise, and expected that, in that lower stratum, they would find an amount of support on which hon. Members opposite little calculated. It was against the elaborate scheme of grouping embodied in the Bill that he now rose to protest—a system that worked badly both in Wales and Scotland, and which he should be sorry to see forced upon Ireland. Those who represented small constituencies in Ireland like to have them to themselves, and therefore he trusted it would be energetically resisted by Irish Members. It stood to reason that a town would be better able to give expression to its own interests when it stood by itself than when it was grouped with one forty or fifty miles apart.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that in Committee he should call attention to the freeman franchise.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he would not detain the House at any length, as the principles involved in the Bill were rather in the nature of details, which would be best discussed and disposed of in Committee. He was rather surprised to hear the objections which had been urged to the Bill on the ground of supposed differences from the English Act. It was based on principles which were identical with those of the English Act. The county franchise was put at precisely the same figure, and the borough franchise was also the same, being given to every tenant who paid poor-rates. It was quite true that circumstances had arisen in Ireland that, at an early period, would render an alteration in the principle of valuation necessary; but that was a question of valuation, not of the franchise. There was no substantial reason why the county franchise should be lower in Ireland than in England. With regard to the borough franchise, the point at which an occupier became liable to pay rates was £4; below that amount the occupier was exempt from the payment of rates; therefore, adopting residence and personal payment of rates as the qualification, they could not take any other amount. So much for the franchise; and he could not but hope that this, by far the most important portion of the Bill, would be adopted by the House, being essentially the same as that adopted by the House, after much consideration, for England. With regard to the re-distribution, perhaps the most interesting portion, the statements made to-night did not lead him to believe that it was probable any single scheme of re-distribution that could be proposed would be more acceptable, because no sooner did any Member propose a different scheme than it was immediately disapproved by others who followed. It was impossible to establish a system of grouping that would improve and elevate the borough representation. In the great portion of Ireland—certainly in three provinces—there were no materials for a satisfactory increase of the representation at all. The Government proposed in the place of
 1961 1962
 THE CHAIRMAN : I have already more than once, in answer to appeals that have been made to me, pointed out that I could not decide that a reference to the grant to Maynooth, the  Regium Donum,
 THE CHAIRMAN  said that, when the hon. Member for Bedford moved his Amendment, the Question to be put from the Chair became this—"That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question." Until the opinion of the Committee was taken on that issue, it would not be competent to the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy to move to amend the words of his Resolution.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The Question which has been put from the Chair is—"That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the proposed Resolution." If this be affirmed, the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy has no power to alter it.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the Question was, that the words moved by the hon. Member for Bedford (Mr. Whitbread) be here added. The hon. Member for Buteshire (Mr. Lamont), however, has moved words which are substantially the same as the words of the original Resolution; therefore, the Question I have to put is, "That these words"—namely, the words moved by the hon. Member for Bedford—"be here added."
 MR. GLADSTONE  proposed to add a few words, which he believed would be accepted on all sides, "due regard being had to personal interests." He said it was with the greatest regret he had seen a Motion introduced, the subject-matter of which was of a kind to make it doubtful
 1926
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am not about to defend the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, who is perfectly capable of holding his own, neither am I about to discuss at large the conduct of Her Majesty's Government to-night. But if I do not proceed to discuss that conduct at the present moment, it is because I do not think that it is desirable to mix up that subject with the one before us, which is already sufficiently difficult and intricate. I must say, however, that I do not think that the right hon. Gentleman has been successful in the explanation he has given. The right hon. Gentleman says that the Motion of the hon. Member for Kirckaldy would, if carried, have disturbed, in a remarkable manner, the arrangements of a very ancient date, in consequence of the mode in which it was drawn up, and notwithstanding this assertion the Minister did not choose to record his vote against it. With the whole of his Colleagues, he left the House, seeking refuge in that small apartment which is appropriated to him. His absence has reminded me of one of his many witty sayings. At the time when my noble Friend (Earl Russell) was Paymaster General, the accommodation of his office was very limited, and the right hon. Gentleman said, "I object to the system of shutting up great men in small rooms." Upon this occasion we have had a most complete exemplification of the system of shutting up in a small room, not one, but many great men, and under circumstances which it may, perhaps, be proper at some future period to enter into. In answer to the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith), I must inform him that I am not responsible for the Resolution which is about to be adopted. I have no difficulty—except the formal one I have already mentioned—in acceding to it; but I am not its author. It appears to me that the time has now arrived when it would be satisfactory to the Committee if the minor
 1931
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that there was an obvious difference between the two Amendments, seeing that one proposed to prohibit the application of any part of the funds of the Anglican Church to the Roman Catholics, whereas that now proposed proposed to prohibit their application to any institutions of other religious communities.
 MR. BRIGHT : I think it is a great misfortune that a question of this difficulty and perplexity should be brought before the House in this way. I think that the hon. Member opposite and myself hold very much the same opinions upon this subject; but I object to the word "institutions," as contained in his Amendment, as being a very wide one. I do not know what it includes or what it excludes according to the interpretation of the hon. Member; but I think it is sufficiently wide to include schools. I objected to the Motion of the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy very much on the ground that it would prevent any sum of money obtained by the disendowment of the Anglican Church in Ireland or any portion of the State funds being applied to any denominational schools in Ireland. I said that, in Ireland, it was utterly impossible to have schools which were not denominational, and therefore I was unwilling to vote for a proposition so wide, and, as I thought, so injudicious. The same thing is proposed to be done by the present Amendment, and therefore I cannot vote for it. If any hon. Member is desirous of proposing any Resolution or Amendment upon this subject, he should take care that his Motion should be couched in terms which are not liable to be misunderstood, and will include just what he intends to be included and will exclude just what he intends shall be excluded. When Amendments are brought forward in this hasty way it is absolutely impossible for the Committee to discuss them with satisfaction. If the right hon. Gentleman opposite had exercised his influence on his side of the House as the right hon. Member for South Lancashire has done on this side, we should have settled this difficult matter long ago, and the Resolutions would before this have been reported to the House. I hope the hon. Gentleman, seeing the difficulty which I have raised, and which I think he will not easily meet, without further consideration, will withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am persuaded that hon. Members are desirous of giving to every Member a fair opportunity for considering any proposition which he has to make, and I would point to him that he cannot, and I feel almost persuaded that he will not expect us to bind ourselves to the terms of that which he regards as ft vital and fundamental proposition on one of the greatest national settlements or unsettlements—call it which you like—ever proposed, without our having first seen the
 1933
 MR. GLADSTONE : I said no such thing. I did not want to be interrupted by my right hon. Friend and others of his mind, and to avoid it I said "unsettlement," knowing the view he takes of the question.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Considering that the right hon. Baronet rose to reply to me I take the liberty of saying that he has not attacked one word that I said. I cast no reproach on the hon. Gentleman for proposing this Amendment; but I merely asked for time to consider it. And the demand for time is so equitable that even the right
 1934
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that the House was landed in a confusion which was becoming still more confused already. He had always abstained from saving or doing anything which might excite religious animosity, and had always voted for the continuance of the Maynooth Grant, though opposed to the wishes of the constituency which he represented. There were two modes of disturbing the religious peace of a country—the one was by transferring the Church revenues from one denomination to another, the other by levelling downwards. But he contended that there was a third and better course for the House to follow, and that was to have a religion established which would exercise a perfect
 1939
 MR. HERBERT  remarked, that on his election, be was questioned respecting the Irish Church, and gave a decided opinion upon it.
 MR. GLADSTONE  moved that the Chairman report the Resolutions to the House.
 MR. BRIGHT : Mr. Dodson, I am not aware, Sir, that anything has been said which could have afforded the right hon. Gentleman the opportunity of which he has availed himself of fifing a parting shot against the Resolutions. But the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman himself, as shadowed forth by his Irish Minister, was that he should pay the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland, and that he should increase or double the  Regium Donum. 1942 1943
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am extremely sorry, Sir, that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government has thought fit to provoke this discussion. We have been busied to-night upon practical matters; and, although towards the close of the evening we came upon subjects necessarily exciting some feeling, yet it was much to have been desired that we should have kept off the ground of mere party recrimination; and, undoubtedly, it is unfortunate that those who continually reproach us—a reproach which we, the majority, have, I think, borne with some patience—with having no motive in this great cause excepting that of our own party advancement, could not suffer the formal Motion, Sir, which I submitted to you to pass without using language in regard to the votes arrived at deliberately by a great majority of this House, of which I will not say whether it is respectful or not to the House, but I will say that I never heard such language used by a Prime Minister. And then, Sir, after my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had felt himself unable to forego a protest against that language, the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works (Lord John
 1945 "There would not, I believe, be any objection to make all Churches equal; but this result must be secured by elevation, and not by confiscation." 1946
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  rose, and asked Mr. Speaker whether, the last Resolution, as it stood, was within the scope of the Order of Reference which had been given to the Committee, the Resolution referring to other things besides the Established Church? He put the question because the Chairman seemed to have some doubt on the point.
 THE CHAIRMAN  then brought up the Resolutions, and the first three were agreed to without comment.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  again appealed to the Speaker to say whether it came within the Order of Reference.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  begged to move that the Question be raised, and that the Chairman be requested to state his opinion. ["No, no!"]
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  expressed his disappointment that, in the portion of the Bill relating to re-distribuiion of seats, justice had not been done to the claims of the province of Ulster, whether on the score of numbers, assessment of property, or of the visible signs of progress and industry. The Census of 1861 showed that, out of the total population of Ireland, amounting to 5,790,000, the population of
 1953 1954
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, he would oppose the scheme of the hon. Member for Dublin, as the wildest that was ever invented. It deprived the counties of those independent elements which boroughs supplied, and it grouped a number of boroughs without making provision that those towns should not lose representation. As to the Bill itself, he was unable to support it, because he thought that as a measure of enfranchisement it was altogether insufficient. And the scheme of re-distribution was only calculated to increase the number of those who support the present Government. An £8 franchise was the very least that could be proposed for counties. The principle of the Bill was really to transfer the power to counties, which were in the hands of a few proprietors, who marched their tenantry to the polling booth, too often accompanied by Her Majesty's troops. He objected to the Bill in its two great branches, because it was not framed fairly and impartially to arrange the distribution of political power, but had been done in the interests of a particular party.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the fact that the Order for going into Committee on the Navy Estimates stood first on the Paper on Monday, and he wished to know, whether the Scotch Reform Bill was to take precedence?
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he could not vote for the Resolution of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Aytoun) as it stood. If the Resolution were affirmed and carried out by Parliament, and the Irish Church disestablished and disendowed, they should lose the Irish Church as an Establishment, without gaining the only advantage which those who were in favour of the proposal said they would obtain from it. If money were settled on the Anglican Church in Ireland, independently of State interference, and they bound themselves under no circumstances whatever not to extend the same principle to other religions, the fate of the Irish Church would soon be followed by the disestablishment of the English Church.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : The hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) is in the habit of praising his own patriotism, his own virtue, and self-denial; but, Sir, I think that when the hon. Gentleman relieves his mind with reference to those virtues which he thinks he possesses, he might have allowed to others some portion of those virtues which he ascribes to himself. And when the hon. Gentleman interprets, or rather misinterprets, the language in which the Prime Minister communicated to the House his interviews with the Sovereign, I, for one, cannot forbear to remind this Committee that the time at which those observations ought to have been made has long since passed. It is obvious that the observations with which we have just been favoured by the hon. Member for Birmingham were carefully prepared to suit that occasion, and had no relevancy to the occasion on which they were made. Sir, the hon. Gentleman says that the discussion and
 1944
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said the operations to which the hon. Gentleman referred were being executed by the Metropolitan Board of Works in accordance with
 1883
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to know, whether, in point of form, practice, and usage, when they were in Committtee on the Established Church of Ireland, they could suddenly convert themselves into a Committee upon the Presbyterian or Roman Catholic Church in Ireland? The Resolutions which they had gone into Committee to consider were limited to the Irish Established Church; and he should like to know, whether it was regular for that Committee to take up Resolutions relating to a totally different subject? If any hon. Member desired to consider the position of
 1907
 MR. AYRTON  said, the hon. Gentleman was not quite accurate. He had not risen to a point of Order, but because, the previous speaker having concluded, an opportunity was afforded him to address the Committee. It was true he had intimated his wish to ask the Chairman's opinion whether the course now being pursued was usual? but, to save the Committee the inconvenience of his rising again, he had gone on to say, before he was interrupted, that, whatever might be the Chairman's decision on the order of proceeding, he would object, as an individual, to enter into the discussion of a question which he thought irrelevant to the main purposes of that Committee. He would, therefore, vote against the Resolution without desiring to express any opinion on its subject.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he did not wish to discuss the merits of the Motion further than to say that, as he had always opposed the Maynooth Grant and the  Regium Donum, 1928
 MR. LEFROY  said, that as representing a constituency including a large number of the members of the Irish branch of the United Church, he could not allow this
 1900
 MR. DISRAELI : It is unnecessary for me to make any statement to the Committee; but in consequence of the inquiry of my hon. Friend, who has just addressed us, I must say that I do not think there was any assumption on the part of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire as to the character of the answer he will receive, or whether he will receive any answer at all to that Address. What I understood the right hon. Gentleman to do was this—to propose certain Resolutions, one of which was an Address to the Crown. When these Resolutions have been properly passed they will be dealt with after due consideration by the Government, and Her Majesty will be properly advised with respect to them.
 MR. DISRAELI : It is necessary that the Navy Estimates should be the first Order on Monday; but the Scotch Reform Bill will be taken immediately afterwards.
 MR. DISRAELI : I certainly hope to proceed with the Scotch Reform Bill on Monday.
 MR. DISRAELI : As I re-entered the House I heard some comments being made upon the duties of the Leader of the House. The duties and the privileges of the Leader of the House are very considerable; but I think they ought to be exercised with moderation, and, perhaps I may presume to say, with some degree of modesty. If I were to take every opportunity of speaking upon every subject, and were to thrust myself forward against the view of the House, in order to give them my opinions upon every possible topic, perhaps I should by so doing not altogether fulfil the duties of the Leader of the House, and should not retain the regard and respect of those among whom I sit. I have no doubt that when the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) has arrived at the position of Leader of the House, this House will find in him a more rigid regulator of their destinies than they have in the Gentleman who now humbly endeavours to fulfil the duties which it falls upon him to discharge. With regard to the point before the House, I can only say that I entirely oppose the policy of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire. I am against the disestablishment of the Church in Ireland. What has recently occurred has amounted to what I have always contemplated would take place, and what will be repeated. There has been a quarrel for the plunder among the hon. Gentlemen opposite, and I do not think that it was my duty to give an opinion upon such a subject. With regard to the particular Motion before the Committee—that of the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy—had the important principles which it in some degree involves been placed simply and plainly before the House, I should not have shrunk from discussing them, or from giving my opinion upon them; but those principles are mixed up in this Motion with details of an impracticable character, which, if we
 1930
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I do not rise to oppose the reporting of these Resolutions; but I think that what has occurred to-night will indicate to the House what will occur in future, and will show the country that those who have introduced these Resolutions to the House have only introduced into this country the elements of confusion.
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Baronet has, unfortunately for us, been for a long time absent from our discussions, and that is really the only way in which I can account for the wild observations he has just made. He has made charges against me which I am sure the Committee, after calmly considering, will say are without foundation. ["Oh, oh!"] Now, I beg to say that those sounds I hear are neither logic nor language. The right hon. Baronet first accuses the Government, so far as I can follow him, with preventing the Committee from coming to a conclusion on the Resolutions proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire. Now, I thought that, so far as I could control the business of the House, that I had come to a clear understanding with the right hon. Gentleman, that so far as I could influence the conduct of my Friends, without in the slightest degree compromising their political action, that the course of business should be facilitated; and with reference to that there is not the slightest charge that can be made against me. The right hon. Baronet accuses me with sanctioning Amendments from this side of the House; but that is not so. They have come from Members on the other side of the House, and that fact must surely have occurred to the right hon. Baronet when he was making charges which have no foundation. The right hon. Gentleman says I ought to have been present and supported the Chairman in his decision against the Amendment. Now, I was in my place, yielding to the decision of the Chairman, as I always do to the decisions of the authorities of this House. I must frankly confess — though no doubt I was wrong — I did not agree with the Chairman; still the decision of the Chairman permitted the discussion of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy, and it was not for me to question it. I am not responsible for the Amendments that have been made, because they come from the other side of the House, and I am not guilty of not having supported the Chairman. He, no doubt, gave an opinion which he thought right, but with which I do not agree, and I must say that it is no part of the duty of a Leader of the House of Commons to prevent the independent expression of opinion. Both sides of the House will not agree in the reflection of misconduct on my part, and will be of opinion that the observations of the right hon. Baronet are unfounded and uncalled for.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped a decision would be at once arrived at, for, considering the state of public business, adjourned debates ought to be discouraged.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman says that he heard from me language which had never before been used by a Prime Minister. Well, Sir, what was that language? I said — as a summary of the debate, the materials of which must be familiar to almost all now present—that when the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman were reported, it was my opinion that, from what had occurred tonight, we might judge what elements of confusion had been introduced into our proceedings. I will only say this, that if that be language which, under the circumstances, has never been used by a Prime Minister, a Prime Minister has never used for the occasion appropriate and sensible language. If anyone had been present at these debates, and had heard the various propositions that were made in consequence of the passing of the right hon. Gentleman's Resolutions, so contrary to one another, so considerable in their operation and in their influence, and indicating the opinion of various sections of this House, representing, I have no doubt faithfully, the opinion of large portions of the population of this country—I say, if anyone had been present, and had heard those propositions, and would not admit that they indicated the confusion of the public mind, in consequence of the right hon. Gentleman's proposals, he would refrain from making an admission which I am sure every frank and candid nature would willingly allow. More than this, I say that what has occurred to night is an
 1947
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that although the Bill had passed both Houses of the Legislature in Queensland, the Governor did not state that he had as yet given his assent to it. No doubt, however, he had done so. He mentioned that the Bill included all the provisions which had been suggested both for regulating the immigration of such labourers and for guarding against abuse. The Papers which had already been moved for were being prepared, and, if the Bill arrived in time, it would be laid with them upon the table.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he admitted that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire was necessary in order to relieve him from, the imputation of attempting to legislate by means of the House of Commons, without consulting the House of Lords. If the right hon. Gentleman succeeded in passing the Bill founded upon the Resolutions, the result would be to forestall the action of the next Parliament, by imposing upon it the duty of repealing a statute, passed by the present Parliament, nominally temporary in its character. The Bill which had been foreshadowed would involve the principle of rendering the tenure of those clergy who would do the duty of the incumbencies affected by the Bill temporary, and would establish a precedent in part of the United Church dangerous to the freehold tenures of the incumbents of the Church in England. This principle was that of a clergy salaried by the State, holding their functions and cures at the pleasure of the Government. Such is the position of the  curés Essays on Religion and Literature, "Now, I have made the remarks as a ground for the assertion with which I shall conclude. The return to faith, which we have traced from the middle of the last century—that is, for now about a hundred years—steadily ascending, doctrine after doctrine, first within the Anglican Establishment, then reaching beyond it into the regions of antiquity and of Catholic truth, has now received its complement in the full re-entrance of the Catholic Church, and the authority of the Vicar of Jesus Christ. It is no longer a question of fragmentary doctrines or isolated truths; of a
 1897 in concrete,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that, previous to the first division on the Resolutions for disestablishing and disendowing the Irish Church, he had objected to the idea of appropriating any portion of the property of the Irish Church to the purposes of any other religious denomination whatsoever. He (Mr. Newdegate) believed that a very long and wide latitude ought to be given to the first word of the Resolution "when" the Church is disestablished; the hon. Member was, however, looking to an eventuality, which he was compelled to contemplate, and deserved great credit for his foresight. As he (Mr. Newdegate) was obliged also to look forward to that eventuality, he could not refuse to support the Amendment, if the hon. Member should press it to a division. The anticipation of the hon. Member, that some portion of the property of the Church would be sought by the Roman Catholic hierarchy was perfectly reasonable, because in a published letter, Dr. Moriarty had distinctly stated that some of the funds ought to be applied to schools, the erection of churches, and various other purposes of the Church of Rome; while the same expectation was elaborately set forth in the last number of  The Dublin Review, 1906 The Dublin Review The Dublin Review, The Dublin Review,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked whether, in the event of the Irish Church being disendowed, the proceeds of the endowments would not lapse to the Crown? because, in that event, they would be State funds.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he should not notice the observations of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), nor the personalities which had been bandied about between the leading Members of the House. He desired to recall the attention of the Committee to the main issue—to the discovery of that night. From the statement last made by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), it was clear that, in his opinion, the difference between the two parties was this — the right hon. Member for South Lancashire declared that Her Majesty's Government intended to endow the Roman Catholic Church and other denominations in Ireland, but not out of the property of the Irish
 1948
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped the Amendment would be pressed, since the division upon it would be a test of the feeling of the Committee; but if the question had come upon Members by surprise the debate should be adjourned.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  understood the words to mean the preservation of the existing interests of the president and students at Maynooth and also the  Regium Donum.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  begged to compliment the hon. Member for Kildare (Mr. Cogan) upon the vigour with which he had applied the Papal thong to the party opposite. The hon. Member for Kirkcaldy (Mr. Aytoun), who had moved the Amendment, was, however, a Scotchman, representing a Scotch constituency, and, however he might suffer under the infliction of the Papal thong, he (Mr. Newdegate) believed that he would persevere with his Amendment from a sense of duty. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire said—"I have declared that the Maynooth Grant and the  Regium Donum 1923
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not comply with the request of the hon. Member, as his Amendment would have exactly the same force as the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman, which might express the opinion of the existing Parliament, but could not pretend to bind that which was to come. He remembered in the Session of 1866, when the right hon. Gentleman, at that time the Leader of the House, had not thought it inconsistent with his position to say of those sitting on the opposite Benches that they had exhibited "a perfect mastery of the arts of ambush." The time had come when he might retort, and congratulate the right hon. Gentleman upon his perfect mastery of the "arts of ambush." Now, when some one came behind him stealthily, and in the dark, and tried to stab him in the back, he would catch at the first weapon that came to his hand and try to knock him down with it. The Amendment of his hon. Friend was suddenly presented to him: he caught at it in his need, and would use it against the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that he rose on his own part, and on the part of those who sat near him, to say that they had no intention of opposing the second reading of this Bill. At the same time, he wished to say that, in the opinion of most of those who sat on that side of the House, there were many important points in the Bill upon which it would be their duty in Committee to raise some serious discussions and propose some important changes. In fact, they took the Bill on its second reading as the foundation
 1950 1951
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, this was the first real and substantial  bonâ fide 1938
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  wished to know the meaning of the words proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. The Resolution condemned the Maynooth Grant; but was it intended to continue that establishment in spite of the Resolution? Was Maynooth College, being a corporate body, to be kept up as long as the last Professor there happened to live? If so, he doubted very much whether the course proposed would meet the approval of the Scotch and Dissenting Members. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would make a clear explanation of the exact meaning of the Amendment.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that this was one of the most important and solemn occasions on which the Crown could exercise its functions; and he wanted to know, whether it was to be taken for granted that Her Majesty's answer to the Address must be favourable, or whether she might not return such a reply as she might think proper? Referring to what had been said on a previous occasion, that Mr. Pitt had dissolved in 1784, when he had been beaten by a majority of 1, the hon. Gentleman pointed out that it was not until Mr. Pitt had been beaten several times, and the majorities against him had dwindled down from 59 to 1, that he had dissolved, and he did so then because the mind of the country was prepared to respond to his appeal. He wished to know what there was to prevent the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government from doing the same? He called upon the right hon. Member for South Lancashire, and also the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister, to say, whether they thought the Assent of the Crown to the Address a mere matter of form; or whether, having protested against the introduction of the name of the Sovereign into the debate, they were now by a combination
 1901
 MR. REARDEN , who had a Motion upon the Paper declaring that it was expedient that an Irish Reform Bill should provide for resident manhood suffrage and vote by ballot; that no borough should be disfranchised; and that the representation, of Ireland should be placed on an equality with that of England and Wales—namely, one Member for every 40,000 of population—said, he would not offer any obstruction to the second reading of the Bill by moving that Amendment; but would reserve to himself the right of moving Amendments in Committee. At the same time, he thought Ireland was not receiving equal justice with England in her representation; and he should be able to prove in Committee that, from her population, her imports and exports, and her revenue Ireland was entitled to 169 Members if she were put on a footing of equality with England and Wales in regard to her representation.
 MR. GREENE  said, that if there was a Gentleman to whose appeal he would yield it would be the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert), and if he had thought with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire no party ties would have prevented him from supporting the Resolutions. The Motion of the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy (Mr. Aytoun) had been objected to on the ground that it was pointed against one sect; but his (Mr. Greene's) Amendment was wide enough for all. As to this discussion being unexpected—who expected at the opening of the Session to be called upon to vote on the disestablishment of the Irish Church? Indeed, be challenged a single Member to say that he was asked a question on his election about the Irish Church. He much regretted that this had been made a party question, and he said this out of no disrespect to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), to whom he was much indebted for being known at all in the House, for the right hon. Gentleman, on a former occasion, challenged him to speak. He felt bound to press his Amendment.
 MR. GREENE  then proposed, as a further Amendment, to insert the words—
 "And that no part of the Endowments of the Anglican Church be applied to the endowment of the institutions of other religious communions."
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) had not yet expressed any opinion with regard to the Question. It would, therefore, be desirable if, before the Committee came to a division, he would favour them with the views of Her Majesty's Government upon the subject.
 COLONEL FRENCH , who had given Notice of his intention to move that the Bill be read a second time on that day six months, said, that he thought that it was hardly in accordance with the rules of Parliamentary courtesy for the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Fortescue) to state his own opinions at that time, when he (Colonel French) had a distinct Notice in opposition to the Bill upon the Paper. The Government stated that one of the principal reasons for continuing in Office was their desire to carry out Reform Bills for Ireland and Scotland. So far as he and those who acted with him were concerned, the Government need not burden themselves with such an Office, for there was not a single portion of the Irish Bill with which they were content. The Bill was objectionable from the beginning to the end, and, judging from the numerous Notices
 1952
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  trusting that the Bill would pass in an altered form, thought it unwise to oppose the second reading. Its provisions violated the principles of the English Bill. One was that no borough should be disfranchised; and this Bill disfranchised six. There were more borough Members than county Members for England; Ireland had sixty-four county to thirty-nine borough Members; and yet it was proposed to reduce the borough and increase the county representation. To transfer counties to boroughs without reducing the county franchise was to restrict rather than extend the franchise. The difficulty was to lower the franchise in the poorer county to the same comparative point as in the richer; but he believed it would be necessary to make a considerable alteration in its provisions regarding this point.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I will follow the example of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, both in the brevity of my remarks and in the freedom from any acerbity which he has displayed on the present occasion. But I wish to explain in a very few words the position of the Government with respect to the Resolution now before the Committee. The two sides of the House appear to me to have totally different objects in this matter. The right hon. Gentleman
 1895 Regium Donum. 1896
 MR. G. MORRIS  protested against the grouping scheme referred to by the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Pim). He suggested that, in accordance with the English Act, a schedule should be attached authorizing the payment of carriage hire to bring up the voters of boroughs to the poll, where, like Galway, the borough runs for a considerable distance into the county.
 MR. WHALLEY , regarding the Amendment as a crucial test, moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. WHALLEY  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not insist upon the addition of the words, which would merely involve the whole question in doubt. He had voted on this question on the principle of fair play and "free trade;" and if the right hon. Member for South Lancashire was not going to prosecute his great work upon that principle, he had not suggested any other. The House and the country were waiting to know on what principle the measure was to be based; and the great difficulty of the right hon. Gentleman would be to induce the country to go much further with him until he had been more definite as to his intentions.
 MR. WHALLEY  wished to say, in answer to the appeal of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, that speaking for himself, and for, he believed, the Liberal party, his vote was given against the Church of Ireland because it had not done its duty on the subject-matters to which the hon. Gentleman referred; and he was prepared and anxious to record a like vote against the Church of England, believing that, while it was established and endowed to resist Popery, it had, in the words of the Prime Minister, been long in secret combination and was now in open confederacy with that power.
 MR. WHALLEY  rose to order. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets had risen to a point of Order, but had departed from that, and was explaining what he would do, in spite of any decision which the Chairman might give on the question be had raised.
 MR. FAWCETT  rose to order. He wished to know whether, as a matter of Order, the words "State funds" must not be left out of the proposed Resolution? If they were left out it would relieve many hon. Gentlemen in coming to a conclusion.
 MR. FAWCETT  wished to know, whether it would be competent for the hon. Member for Kirkealdy, in the event of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bedford (Mr. Whitbread) being lost, to alter his Resolution as he had proposed? The answer would probably affect the votes of many hon. Members, who might be inclined to support the Resolution in its altered form, though they were indisposed to agree to it as originally proposed.
 MR. CLAY  presumed that it was impossible to find a subject on which both sides of the House would be in perfect accordance; but if there was one subject more than another on which Gentlemen opposite agreed with the Liberal party, it must be that if the Irish were disendowed the Maynooth Grant and the  Regium Donum
 MR. LAMONT  rose to move to add the following words:—
 "And that no part of the secularized funds of the Anglican Church be applied in any way or in any form to the endowment or furtherance of the Roman Catholic religion or any other religious body in Ireland; or to the establishment or maintenance of any denominational schools or colleges."
 MR. LAMONT , in seconding the Resolution, said, that if he had thought there would be the slightest hesitation or difficulty on the part of the right hon. Gentleman
 1905
 MR. LAMONT  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether he intends to bring in a Bill to repeal or to modify the Act of last Session which legalized Trawling for Herrings in the West of Scotland?
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, When it is his intention to proceed with the Scotch Reform Bill?
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, as he stated when the noble Earl introduced the Bill, that he could not see that any principle which had been hitherto proposed or accepted by the House had governed him in the preparation of it, he might, perhaps, be permitted, in justification of that opinion, which was expressed at the moment, to say that, having since had the opportunity of more carefully considering the clauses which referred to the re-distribution of seats, that he was confirmed in his opinion, and that he felt that that opinion could be fully sustained. They had had during the last Session, in many and protracted debates which some of them, at least, on this side of the House heard with weariness, a policy announced and insisted upon with reference to a reform of the English constituency which had been disregarded in the Bill proposed for Ireland. The House will permit him to call their attention to the comparative position of the English boroughs, as fixed by the English Bill, and the disfranchisement of the Irish boroughs and the distribution of the Members proposed to be liberated. In England there were no less than twenty-two boroughs sending Members to Parliament of a population less than 6,000. There were ten boroughs of a population less than 5,000. There were twenty-two boroughs of a population less than Bandon, eighteen less than Cashel, nine less than Kinsale, five less than Downpatrick, and four less than Dungannon. Upon what principle, then, by what mode of calculation had the noble Earl arrived at the determination to disfranchise those five Irish boroughs, and what did he do with the five Members? He gave one to the minority in Dublin. It was pretty clear what class of men that minority would return. Certainly not one who would add to the Liberal ranks in that House. He selected four baronies in Tipperary to form a new constituency—being perfectly well aware that those four baronies were Conservative, and would send a Member to aid the Conservative party to Parliament. [The Earl of MAYO said, he had heard that a
 1959
 MR. BRADY  said, he must protest against the principle of this Bill, if, indeed, it contained any principle whatever. Household suffrage was granted in England but denied to Ireland. He objected to the £4 "hard line" borough franchise. He altogether objected to the £12 county franchise, and thought it ought to be reduced to £7, because the great mass of the people lived in small tenements. He compared the different franchises existing in England with those proposed to be given
 1958
 MR. SPEAKER  replied, that the Chairman of Committees was the proper judge of those matters which came under his notice while in Committee. He could not interfere with the decision of the Chairman at the suggestion of an individual Member. To authorize him to do so the Question must be brought before him by direction of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  begged to remind the hon. and gallant Gentleman that the Resolutions had not yet been reported to him.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, By whose authority a Pavement is being laid down on the West Side of Park Lane, thereby reducing the portion of ground taken from the Park for the purpose of the roadway from eighteen feet to less than twelve feet?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true, as stated in  The Times
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to say, before the Chairman rose to answer the question put to him, that the question they were then discussing was the disendowment as as well as the disestablishment—because the two things could not be separated—of the Irish Church. Well, what would weigh very much in the minds of a number of men in determining that question was the after applications of the funds to be obtained by the process of disendowment, and to say that point was not relevant to the question seemed to him to be wholly to misunderstand the great subject of the present discussion.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : The hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) has stated that we, who sit on this side of the House, have by the vote we have just given, declared that we intend to retain the power of bestowing the whole or part of the property taken from the Irish Church upon the Roman Catholic body. For myself, and I know for a great portion of those who surround; me, I utterly deny that statement. I will resist to the utmost of my power any proposal for giving one farthing of the property to the Roman Catholic or to any
 1929
 MR. VANCE , in spite of the criticism which had been bestowed upon the measure, regarded it as one which, on the whole, dealt with the question in a satisfactory manner. He believed, however, that the claims of Ulster had not been fully recognized. Many of the towns in Ulster were of greater importance than boroughs in the South, with whose representation it was nut proposed to interfere. If the population of Scotland were compared with that of Ireland, it would, he believed, be found that the claims of the former country had received ample acknowledgement. Yet it was proposed to give seven additional Members to Scotland. It would,
 1956
 MR. PIM  thought that the scheme for the re-distribution of seats was very defective; and, unless it were improved in Committee, he was of opinion that it would be better to confine the Bill to the franchise. He should have no objection to see additional Members given to Ulster, if that could be done without taking them from the other provinces. It appeared to him that the Government ought to have had recourse to the system of grouping which had worked so well in Scotland and in Wales, and which was peculiarly adapted to the circumstances of Ireland. No fewer than eighty-four Irish boroughs had been disfranchised at the Union. In many cases, probably, the disfranchisement took place with the object of bribing the owners by payment for their interest in those boroughs. He thought they ought to make use of the present opportunity to remedy the error then committed, and replace the most important of those towns in the rank of boroughs; and, by uniting them to some of the existing boroughs, form groups, which would be as valuable a portion of the Irish constituencies as they are of the Scotch and Welsh. He objected to the proposed disfranchisement of the six small boroughs, because it would weaken the borough constituencies, and thus afford a plausible argument for giving increased representation to the counties at the expense of the boroughs; and he thought it would be wrong to decrease the borough representation. The large and important county of Cork had certainly a strong claim to be divided into two ridings, and to return four Members instead of two; but no valid reason had been shown for taking these additional members from the boroughs. The electors in boroughs were generally much more independent in their action than the electors in counties; and it would therefore, be decidedly a loss to the independence of the constituencies if the borough representation was diminished. Another objection to the Government proposal as to the six small boroughs was that, supposing their plan of franchise to be affirmed, a large number of the present electors in these boroughs would be deprived of the franchise, as they would lose the right of voting in the boroughs; and their qualification is not sufficient to entitle
 1955
 MR. PIM  said, he objected to both the Resolution and the Amendment. There was nothing about disendowment or secularization in the Resolution which the House had adopted. There was no parallelism between the endowments of the Established Church and the grant to Maynooth, so that the continuance of the one should depend on that of the other. There was a parallelism as respects the  Regium Donum; 1925
 MR. KENDALL  thought that while Gentlemen opposite were quarrelling amongst themselves, they ought to feel very much obliged to the First Minister for absenting himself. The question before the House was a very simple one, though the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had a way of mystifying things that he (Mr. Kendall) had really to shake himself before he could be certain what the actual state of the case was. The question was, would they pledge themselves not to apply the proceeds of the Irish Church property to the endowment of the Roman Catholic religion? He did not wonder that Gentlemen who were doing so dishonest a thing as to rob a Church should wish to shy that question; but the country would understand what it all meant.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, reverting to a Question on Thursday, the 30th ultimo, relative to the late promotions in the Coldstream Guards, he was aware of the fact that in 1855 Captain Dormer, being the only Ensign and Lieutenant of the Grenadier Guards then possessing two years' Army service, was promoted over fifteen Officers who stood before him on the Regimental List, but who had not the requisite service, the Ensign at the top of the list only requiring sixteen days to complete his service for the step; and whether, having regard to Clause 44 of the Royal Warrant of the 3rd day of February, 1866, and to the precedent of Captain Dormer's case, the Secretary of State for War will state why a similar course has not been adopted in the Coldstream regiment to that acted upon in the Grenadiers on the occasion alluded to?
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN : I beg to give Notice that on going into Committee of Supply I shall call attention to the circumstances connected with promotion in the Coldstream Guards.
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Government has received from Queensland a Bill passed by the Legislature there to legalize the introduction of Polynesian Labourers; and, if so, whether he will state what course the Government propose to recommend Her Majesty to adopt in respect to such Bill?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, he had attentively listened to the speeches made during the Irish Church debate by Members representing Irish constituencies, and he had not heard from them a single disclaimer of the Maynooth Grant, or an expression of willingness on the part of the Irish Roman Catholic Church to give up that endowment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, that the Committee, before accepting this Resolution, ought to insist upon having a clear notion of what its meaning was. Resolutions had been passed with, they were told, a view to legislation. He wished to know what legislation the right hon. Gentleman meant to found upon this Resolution. What were the existing personal interests which were to be preserved? Were they those of the professors and students at Maynooth? Was it, however, not a delusion to introduce these words into the Resolution; and were they not words which had no meaning whatever?
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he was not willing to withdraw his Resolution; but, as there was a difference of opinion on the subject among some of his Friends, he proposed to amend it by leaving out the words, "or any State Funds whatever," and also the words "Roman Catholic" at the end of the Resolution, and inserting other words, so as to make it apply generally to "other religious bodies," and to the maintenance of any "denominational schools."
 MR. AYTOUN , in rising to move the Resolution of which he had given Notice, said, he had voted in favour of the Resolutions, and hoped they would tend to the
 1903 "The one point about which the Dissenters of England have any fear is one which I trust you will mention tonight. We fear lest any share of the Church property should be given to the Papists. To a man we should deprecate this. Bad as the present evil is, we would sooner see it let alone than see Popery endowed with the national property. Not one single farthing ought any religious denomination to receive, and the whole matter will be imperilled if those in power are not quite clear as to any douceurs to the Pope. We are not agitated by the dead horse of 'No Popery,' which knaves would raise that fools may be their instruments: but we are very determined that it never shall be said that, under the guise of removing the grievances of Ireland, we made an exchange of endowed Churches, and put down the Anglican to set up the Roman image." 1904
 MR. AYTOUN : I beg pardon. I demanded to know what was not to be done.
 MR. AYTOUN : I beg to say that my right hon. Friend misunderstood me. It is quite possible I may have expressed myself in such a manner as to lead him to misinterpret me; but what I meant to say was that it is desirable we should have a complete issue before us. I do not mean that the details of the plan of the right hon. Gentleman should be made known; but that we should have a clear understanding as to whether or not any portion of the funds of the Anglican Church should be given to the Roman Catholic Church.
 MR. LAING  rose to move the following Resolution:—
 "That this House is of opinion, that while the principle of disestablishing the Irish Church has been affirmed by this House, the question is too important to be settled without an appeal to the constituencies created by the new Reform Acts; and therefore that it will be the duty of the Government to arrange the course of Public Business so as to enable this appeal to be made at the earliest practicable opportunity." 1902
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he had no doubt that the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy meant that his Resolution should be a supplement to the first Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman. He would venture to propose an Amendment on the hon. Gentleman's Resolution—that was to say, to leave out all the words of his Resolution after the word "that," in order to add these words—
 "When legislative effect shall have been given to the First Resolution of this Committee respecting the Established Church of Ireland, it is right and necessary that the Grant to Maynooth and the Regium Donum be discontinued."
 MR. WHITBREAD  wished to know, whether the Amendment proposed by the last speaker was not out of order, as being substantially the same as that of the hon. Member for Buteshire (Mr. Lamont)?
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he was rather surprised at the objection taken by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. Although himself not so skilled in the rules of the House as that
 1908 Regium Donum;
 MR. COGAN  said, that, in the present position of the question, Members were in some difficulty, and probably the Liberal party were in a position of some danger. [ Cheers. 1921 prestige 1922 Regium Donum Regium Donum;
 MR. STACPOOLE  objected to the
 1960
 COLONEL W. STUART  asked, whether that Amendment would be in order?
 MR. POWELL  said, that whatever might be the result of this conversation, it had cast a broad light upon previous discussions respecting the Irish Church, and had shown that the further they advanced the greater were the difficulties in the way. There were various modes of conducting public proceedings, and the plan pursued by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire was to carry his Resolutions and then with draw the explanations which had accompanied and recommended his Resolutions. The explanations which the right hon. Gentleman had given had illustrated his meaning, and he had shadowed forth with more or less fulness various schemes. They had a denunciation of levelling up and a commendation of levelling down, and they had been told what portions of the Irish Church property should be retained and what would be required for other than existing interests. When, however, the Committee proceeded to carry into effect the spirit of the explanations by which the Resolutions were accompanied, then a different voice came from the other side, and they were told that they were not to proceed any further. If they disestablished the Irish Church they must disendow her, and they must also deal in a corresponding manner with the grant to Maynooth and the  Regium Donum.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he could not allow this Resolution to pass without recording his protest with regard to what the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) said about the Irish Bishops; he must say he thought it was rather unfair to quote the authority of one Irish Bishop and to take no notice of the opposite authority of all the other Bishops. Mr. Spurgeon, at a recent meeting, said that, if the Irish clergymen were turned into the streets to-morrow, it would only be an act of stern justice, avenging the past; and added that the object in view in this movement was the disestablishment of all Churches. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to assume that vacant parishes might easily be supplied by curates; but he must point out to the right hon. Gentleman that, for a number of years past, there
 1898
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he agreed with the hon. Baronet (Sir James Fergusson) that the present Resolution was a precipitate one, and an agreement with it would be attended with most embarrassing consequences. ["Oh, oh!"] The hon. Baronet, and those who supported it, were anxious that no State funds should be applied to the maintenance of the Roman Catholic religion, or of denominational schools; but the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had shown that many of these now supported by public money were exclusively denominational; but this Resolution was not confined to Ireland. There were Roman Catholic schools in this country, and this Resolution, if agreed to, would affect them, and it would tie up the hands of the Government in regard to them. Further, it would affect the Roman Catholic chaplains in the army and the navy and the gaols, and, indeed, all cases in which public funds were applied to Roman Catholics. Seeing the embarrassment this Resolution would create in the cases of Roman Catholic chaplains of gaols and garrisons, he was surprised that any Member of the Government would support it. He trusted the Committee would not entertain it for a moment.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I thought, from what the right hon. Gentleman the first Minister of the Crown stated early in the evening, that it was the desire of the Government to avoid discussion on the main subject in order that the evening might be devoted to the progress of business which it was essential should be transacted; but the conduct of the Government during the last two hours has entirely negatived that supposition.
 1935 Regium Donum, Regium Donum
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON : The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) complains that there is a disposition on the Ministerial side of the House to support Amendments not previously placed on the Paper; but is he not going to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bedford (Mr. Whitbread) which has not been put on the Paper, and which was only placed in the Chairman's hands, in writing, a few minutes since? Allow me to point out also that, by the course adopted, the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy (Mr. Aytoun) has been precluded from altering his Resolution in a manner that would have commanded the support of the hon. Members for Brighton and Westminster (Mr. Fawcett and Mr. Stuart Mill). It does not, therefore, lie in the right hon. Gentleman's mouth to tell the hon. Member that he is improperly seeking to ask the Committee to vote upon an important Amendment that has not been placed on the Paper. It is of the greatest importance that the Committee should be pledged on this point if we are to deal with the revenues of the Established Church in Ireland; because the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue), who filled the important office of Chief Secretary for Ireland told them, in an elaborate speech which he delivered the year before last, that the revenues of the Irish Church ought to be divided amongst other religious communities.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, the Committee had now to deal with some of the evils of the recent precipitate Resolutions;
 1911 1912 Regium Donum "That when the Anglican Church in Ireland is disestablished and disendowed, no part of the secularized funds of the Anglican Church be applied in any way, or under any form, to the endowment or furtherance of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland, or to the establishment or maintenance of Roman Catholic denominational schools or colleges."
 SIR JAMES STRONGE  pleaded for
 1957
 SIR JOHN GRAY  remarked that the Bill did not give the same advantage to Ireland as was given by the English Bill to England. He supported the second reading; but held himself perfectly free to make any alterations in the Bill in Committee. He thought the ballot absolutely essential to the protection of the voters.
 MR. J. HARDY  hoped the Motion would be pressed to a division, in order that Independent Members on both sides of the House might express their opinions. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had not been quite fair to the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy (Mr. Aytoun), because the pledge given was that none of the endowments of the Established Church should go to the Romish Church; not that no endowment was to go to the schools of Ireland. The whole
 1920
 MR. HIBBERT  appealed to the hon. Member (Mr. Greene) to withdraw his Amendment. ["No, no!"] He begged to direct the hon. Gentleman's attention to this fact, that whatever words he might introduce into the Resolution, or whatever Resolutions might be passed by that House, it was the next Parliament that would have to say what was to be done.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that he was happy to say that there was not, and had not been, any deficiency of medical supplies such as that represented. The statement must have been founded upon a misapprehension.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : In answer, Sir, to the Question of the hon. Baronet, I beg to say that, at the time I answered his former Question on this subject, I was quite aware of the fact that in 1855 Captain Dormer, being the only Ensign and Lieutenant in the Grenadier Guards then possessing two years service, was promoted over fifteen officers. I did not say, in
 1884 "The vacancy shall be filled by the promotion of the senior qualified officer, unless it shall appear expedient to Our Secretary of State for War and to Our Commander in Chief that the vacancy should be otherwise filled."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, What are the duties and emoluments of Her Majesty's High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, and out of what fund the Commissioner is paid; what is the total amount of salaries paid to the several officers in the department of the Lord High Commissioner, and out of what fund such salaries are paid; and, whether the Established Church of Scotland is in a minority in that part of the United Kingdom?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Precisely so. The question before the Committee is the settlement or the unsettlement of the Irish Church. If it is to be a settlement of the question we ought to know what is to be done with the funds of the Church; and, if the object is to be unsettlement, it is an unstatesmanlike proceeding which we were told before was a desire to be in a position the better to settle it. It is hardly to be wondered at now that we have arrived at this point, that hon. Members who now begin to see the practical bearing of these Resolutions should begin to ask some questions, so as to endeavour to arrive at a clear conclusion as to what it is that is really to be done. It may be necessary to take a little further time to consider this Resolution. As the Amendments grow out of that which has already been passed. I do not see that any reproach attaches to those hon. Members who have been called on to consider Resolutions for the disestablishment of the Irish Church, for putting forward Amendments on which to test the sense of the Committee.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : There is one expression which has just fallen from my right hon. Friend which exactly touches the point. He first spoke of this as a great national settlement, and then immediately corrected himself by saying it was a great national unsettlement.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that in consequence of the important and pressing matters which had occupied the attention of the House, and must continue so to do for some time to come, it was not the intention of the Government to proceed with the measure referred to by the hon. and gallant Member.
 LORD STANLEY , in reply, said, these Papers were now before the Law Officers of the Crown, but he believed a portion of them might shortly be produced. If his hon. Friend would explain privately which of them he wanted, no doubt he would be able to procure them.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why the Annual Report of the Postmaster General for 1866, presented to the House on the 12th August 1867, has not yet been delivered; and, when the Annual Report for 1867 may be expected?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the Committee on the Scotch Reform Bill had been fixed for Monday; but he understood that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) had arranged that the Navy Estimates should be taken first on Monday; and the Scotch Reform Bill afterwards. Now, as he understood, the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall)—a Motion relating to the restrictions upon the importation of foreign cattle
 2005
 MR. BRUCE  said, he believed the hon. Member for South Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) was mistaken as to the object of the hon. Baronet's Motion. As he understood the case, the hon. Baronet wished for an inquiry into the subject of infection, seeming to be under the impression that infection was different from contagion. In this view of the case, the  addendum 2012
 LORD HENLEY  said, that the subject was one of great importance. The Report confirmed an idea which he had formed, after what he had heard in Committees on the turnpike system—namely, that the Home Office was not the tribunal by which matters relating to turnpike trusts could be decided in a satisfactory manner. There were as many as 1,033 of those trusts, and it could not be supposed that either the Secretary of State for the Home Department or his Under Secretary had time to attend to them. Besides, they required local knowledge which one could not expect to find in the Home Office. There were 194 trusts out of debt, but with these the Home Office had not dealt very satisfactorily. As for the reasons assigned in the Report for not throwing the reads on the parishes when the trusts had expired, they might be
 2015
 MR. SCOURFIELD  agreed that the fanner who used the roads would not have to pay more if the roads were maintained out of the rates; but the grievance would be that those who did not use them would have to pay the same as those who did.
 COLONEL SYKES , in seconding the Resolution, said, that in 1860 the Defence Commission recommended a system of fortifications involving an expenditure of £11,000,000. Subsequently to 1860 there was a reconsideration of the subject; there was a modification of the plan of the Defence Commission, and the expenditure was reduced to £6,000,000 or £7,000,000. In 1860, he opposed the system of fortifications then recommended. He knew it was impossible to defend our whole sea coast, and therefore he was of opinion that the defence of our arsenals was all that should be undertaken. In 1867, he moved for a Return, and he proposed that the modifications should be set in detail, with a statement as to costs past and prospective, &c. The Return laid on the table in consequence of the Motion made by him showed that the total outlay proposed up to that date was £6,995,000, independently of armament and troops. Up to the 1st of January, 1867, there had been expended upon the works £3,491,872. It was stated that 987 large rifled guns would be required, and 1,104 guns of 95 cwt. and under. The estimated cost of the armament was £1,883,722; the number of artillerymen required would be 9,841; and the number of infantry 22,441. It also appeared from the Return that the land to be purchased would cost no less than £1,064,761; that the actual expenditure up to the first of January, 1867, was £4,556,633; and that £2,438,367 more would be required to complete the fortifications alone. Now, if the works had been of a suitable character—if they had
 2030 The Times
 COLONEL SYKES  admitted that he had made a mistake. The letter appeared in  The Times
 COLONEL SYKES  went on to remark that  The Times 2031
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, the hon. Gentleman had fairly quoted him as having always been opposed to these fortifications, for the building of which he was by no means responsible; but he could not conceive that the House which was really responsible for them would interpret unfavourably the action of the present Government in continuing the contracts which were in operation when they succeeded to Office. The sea forts at Spithead he believed to be entirely useless; indeed, they would prove admirable marks to guide an expert enemy into the harbour, while, as Sir Frederick Smith said, in a
 2036
 MR. MELLY , as representing a large constituency of 150,000 persons, objected to the re-committal of the Bill, which he hoped would be at once read a third time and passed.
 COLONEL HOGG  said, that the accusations made against the Metropolitan Board of Works were unfounded. The Board did not wish for additional responsibilities, although they would discharge to the best of their ability any fresh duties which Parliament might impose upon them.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought it certain that the fact of a member of the Council of Government in India being connected with the management of a bank must give a great impulse to speculation. As matters stood in India, it appeared as if there were an irresponsible Council which was continually reversing the opinions of the Secretary of State and the House of Commons. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for India would adopt effective measures to prevent a recurrence of the evils complained of. The right hon. Baronet had not distinctly stated that he had taken steps to prevent the possibility of a member of the Governor's Council becoming a shareholder.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he should not have trespassed on the attention of the House had he not understood that his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War had in his absence coupled his name with that of St. Paul. Now, he had quoted on a former occasion from the  St. Paul's Magazine The Times The Times' St. Paul's Magazine The Times' 2050 2051
 MR. LIDDELL , in seconding the Motion, said he was in hopes that even in the midst of political excitement the importance—he might almost say the necessity—of this subject would induce the House to give it a very careful attention. His great object was to prevail on the hon. Baronet and the House to allow the scope of this inquiry to be extended to a point beyond that contemplated by the hon. Baronet. He wished to extend the inquiry to a class of diseases unfortunately too prevalent, and to see whether the provisions of the Contagions Diseases Act might not be applied to all the great towns of the kingdom. Many Members of the House were aware that there existed an important central association in London, whose object was to have that Act extended to the civil population of our towns, and, further, very many great towns in the country were prepared to ask for the boon. Within the last
 2009
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM , in rising to move that, in the opinion of this House, it would be advantageous and convenient to substitute a system of weekly in lieu of daily payments to those non-commissioned Officers and Soldiers of the Army whose previous conduct might warrant the extension of this indulgence, said, he was of opinion that this indulgence would be of great benefit to soldiers of good conduct. The driblets of pay they received daily were of very little use to them, being so small after the regulation deduction. Raising the soldiers' pay had led to no less than 26,000 enlistments, and he believed the proposal he had in view would be attended by the most advantageous results, and would greatly encourage and facilitate the habit of saving. That proposal was a very simple one, and it had the great merit that it would not add one farthing to the Estimates. What he proposed was, that non-commissioned officers and soldiers should be paid weekly instead of daily. It was quite clear that they would prefer it, as even now they often got the captain to keep the money for them until the end of the week. The large number of men offering themselves for re-enlistment had enabled commanding officers to refuse men who had been guilty of misconduct, so that the men in the ranks were now of a class clearly entitled to favourable consideration. There had been instances before Delhi, and in Canada, and elsewhere, in which the ordinary rule of daily payments had been departed from, and the change had given great satisfaction to the men. There was recently a case in which, when some troops were sent to Malta, the officers of some of the regiments directed the arrears of ninety days' due—owing to the advance in the amount of soldiers' pay made last Session, on the recommendation of the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel)—to be paid in one payment, which amounted to 15 s. s. 2004 Trent,
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH , while admitting that nothing in a small way was more vexatious than to be stopped on the road to pay a toll, said, that the toll system at least secured good roads, which were paid for by those who used them. If the repair of all roads was thrown on the parishes, a much more vexatious state of things would exist—the roads would be allowed to go out of repair. You might force the repair of the road upon the unwilling ratepayers, but they would prove like the horse at the water that could not be made to drink. Farmers would repair the roads to be traversed by their own carts, but would leave them in an unsatisfactory condition for other conveyances. Had we possessed all our present experience we might have devised a better system as regards our legislation on turnpike trusts. Certain districts might have been grouped together, and, as the terms fell out, the trusts might have been continued from year to year until all the roads in that district could have been brought under the Home Office together. If that had been done, greater economy could have been practised, many toll-bars might have been removed, and, finally, one term could have been fixed for all the roads in the district. As it was, great injustice often arose; because an Act was allowed to expire a road was thrown upon the highway rates, perhaps a parallel road was repaired by tolls, and the result was the traffic was diverted to the road which had been freed from toll-bars. This might have been avoided under a more uniform system, which would have allowed those who took an interest in the matter to put the roads of a large district under one management. The gradual abolition of tolls under such a system would have led farmers to look upon highway districts with greater satisfaction. In speaking of the debt, he wished to refer to the system which prevailed in Scotland, and which worked admirably. The system of rating was different, for the landlords assumed the payment of the debt; but, although the English system was different, the solution of the difficulty would be facilitated if the landowners would take one-half the debt on themselves, and the
 2018
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  stated that the object of the hon. Baronet was already being carried out by the Medical Department of the Privy Council. The spread and the origin of disease was the subject of scientific study year by year, and of prolonged and accurate investigation. Annually there is laid before Parliament every new experience which is gained by that Office, or which is arrived at throughout the country, or even abroad. As examples he might mention the sixth Report of the year 1864, which gave the result of an interesting inquiry on the spread of communicable diseases in hospitals; the Report of 1866 dealt with the practice of quarantine, and showed it was of very little use as a preventive of yellow fever, although it might be required for commercial reasons. If we did not impose it here on some ships, all our ships would be put in quarantine abroad. The medical officers also made special experimental researches; in 1867 a minute investigation touching the communicability of cholera was made, and anyone who had read that Report would see that no pains or expense had been spared to make the inquiry exhaustive. This year a special investigation was being made regarding the communicability of phthisis and the allied diseases by means of inoculation. The hon. Baronet had complained that the  Pall Mall Gazette Pall Mall Gazette. "The spread of disease by infection (distinguished from contagion) as may tend to cheek legislation and action in cases unsupported by the evidence, winch in times of excitement saves a people from the commission of great crimes or great follies." 2011
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as the Bill stood persons who had no interest in the finances of the metropolis would be at liberty to impose burdens on the taxpayers. With a view of having this altered he moved the re-committal of the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he supposed the House would not go into Committee that night, and he therefore rose to call attention to the Papers laid on the table with reference to the Bank of Bombay, and to ask a Question thereupon. The Question was one of pressing importance, relating as it did to the existence of an institution in Bombay, which had a very great effect upon the state of public credit and credit generally in Bombay, and might indirectly seriously affect the credit of this country. In consequence of the failure of the Bank of Bombay, a new bank had been established, and the Government had established relations with it, resembling those which it had sustained with the late Bank. To this he should have felt no objection but for the extraordinary circumstance that all the evils that existed in the old Bank, and that led to its failure, had been re-created in the new Bank, which was to be supported by the Government of India. The old Bank was founded in 1840. It was established by an Act of the Legislative Council, which defined the powers and duties of the directors. The Court of Directors in England sent out instructions on which the Bank Act was passed; and they adopted this fundamental policy, that it was improper to give to a bank in India those unlimited powers which were given to similar institutions in this country; that no funds should be advanced, except on security, either of public loans of the Government of India, or merchandize, or bills of exchange having the security of an independent and solvent person in addition to the drawer and acceptor; and further, that no one should obtain upon his own credit loans exceeding £30,000. There was a further provision that the length of credit to be given should be limited to three months; and there was a strict prohibition against the funds being appropriated in any other manner. Under this admirable system the Bank was carried on for many years, and its credit stood higher than the credit of any bank in the world. Unfortunately, however, a change was made in the constitution of the Bank. A new law was passed empowering the directors to advance money on cash credit, and to buy and sell bills of exchange without those restrictions. Thus they were at liberty to advance what they pleased on the security of a single person, without any collateral security. Then began
 2056 2057
 MR. HAYTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, having regard to the increased danger to life from the use of Breech-loaders in the hands of Soldiers either insane or of intemperate habits, as evidenced by the recent occurrences at Horfield Barracks, near Bristol, he will undertake to advise with his Royal Highness the Field Marshal Commanding in Chief, as to the propriety of withdrawing the twenty rounds of Ball Cartridge now in the possession of all Non-commissioned Officers and Men of the British Army, and of serving out the same to the Troops on parade when about to proceed on military duty?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was aware of the circumstances to which the right hon. Gentleman had called attention, and he had been consulting with one of his right hon. Friends on the subject at the moment when the right hon. Gentleman ruse. He did not think it would be satisfactory either that the House should be in any doubt about the time at which the Scotch Reform Bill would come on or that the Bill should be brought forward at a late hour. He thought, therefore, it was better to have it understood that the Bill would not be taken on Monday. The Boundary Bill was the first Order for Thursday night. He would put the Scotch Reform Bill down as the second; and if it could not be brought on that night it might be fixed for another day.
 MR. DISRAELI  suggested that they had better confine themselves at present to arranging that the Bill was not to come on next Monday. On Monday they could make further arrangements.
 MR. NEATE  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not overlook the case of those roads where the tolls had been abolished; for redress was called for with respect to them as much as it was called for with respect to those where tolls still existed. A flagrant injustice had been done under the substituted system of rating. There were instances in which those roads were made without any reference to the parish in which they were made, and which was rated for their maintenance. He knew an instance in which a road had been made just outside a gentleman's park, and not with any unjust idea, for, in the first instance, the road had been kept up by tolls; but the abolition of those tolls had thrown the burden upon an adjoining parish.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that his conviction was that the discussion on the Boundary Bill would occupy so much time as to throw the Scotch Reform Bill over. He therefore hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would fix the Scotch Reform Bill as the first Order. So important a Bill should not be placed second.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN , in seconding the Motion, said, that all that the Home Office could do was to press the clerks to produce the returns as soon as possible. He concurred in the complaint made by his hon. Friend (Mr. Clive), and must further complain that the action of the Home Office had led to the introduction, for the first time, of arguments into the annual statement with reference to trusts. He was aware that the Act of Parliament stated that observations might be made in the Report; but the Legislature never intended that it should contain a series of arguments which would enable persons who took a peculiar view to quote an official document in support of it, and to assert that it was the judgment of the Home Office. During the few months that he had filled the Office of Under Secretary for the Home Department, he had never ventured to embody in an official statement of this nature his own views on the subject of turnpike tolls. This was a question of the very greatest importance, and he should like, if the opportunity were afforded, to have a further discussion upon it. When he saw the contents of this annual statement he was inclined to answer it, but refrained from doing so because he thought that course would be inconvenient to the House. He could not enter into the question as it stood now without raising the whole turnpike question; but, when the Turnpike
 2014
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was very sorry so much fault had been found with a Report published under his auspices; but many of the objections taken to it were not, in his opinion, valid. It was said that credit was taken for something now carried out by the present Government. It was not, however, this, but the last Government that had the credit—if credit were to be taken at all—for something that had been done by Mr. William Harrison. From the speeches made it might be supposed that the task of settling the turnpike affairs of the country was an easy one; but he was bound to say that, having had his attention drawn, during the last two mouths, to the subject, he had come to the con-
 2019 2020 2021
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, When the Papers relating to the condemnation of the cargo of the British barque  Springbok,
 MR. CLIVE  said, he rose to call attention to the Seventeenth General Report on Turnpike Trusts made by direction of the Secretary of State for the Home Department under the Act 3 & 4  Will. 2013 ex parte.
 MR. GOSCHEN  put it to the hon. Member for Cashel, whether it would not be well to bring this question before the House again? [ Cries of Renewed cries of
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he did not intend to offer one word of hostile criticism upon what had been done by the right hon. Baronet. Not the least satisfactory part of his explanation was that in which he stated his views as to the undesirable-ness of the Government becoming shareholders in a bank. But there was one moral to be drawn from the case of the old Bank of Bombay which ought not to be overlooked—namely, the inefficiency and unreliable character of Government inspection and Government interference in commercial matters. Where there was Government inspection the public was always likely to cease to be vigilant or to contest the action of the directors; and then if
 2060
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that he was unable to give an explanation of the reason why the printing of the documents had been so long delayed. As, however, the delay had taken place, it was thought that it would be more convenient to print and present the Returns for the last two years together. They would, probably, be laid on the table of the House in a fortnight or three weeks.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought the Report went in a retrograde direction, and entirely upset all that had been done before. The Home Office had in a most extraordinary way taken the part of the country against the cities, and had actually gone out of its way to show reasons why the law should be—he might almost say—violated. They had gone as far back as the year 1836. All the tolls throughout the country were levied under certain Acts of Parliament. The power to levy was originally a contract, ratified by Parliament, between the trustees and the public, and was always limited to a certain number of years. Every year, therefore, a Turnpike Trust Continuance Bill was brought in, usually at the end of July to continue these contracts and the power of levying tolls. The public in the districts concerned were never consulted with regard to the Bill; there was no possibility of discussing the question, and Parliament was really acting entirely in opposition to the interests of the public in this matter. He would observe that those persons who lent their money on these trusts knew that the investment was in the nature of a terminable annuity, and consequently in the matter of their renewal they had the barest equity. If the turnpikes were to become an institution, under the Home Office, why was the Continuance Act brought in every year? The proper course would be to make the Act permanent. It was a mistake to suppose that this question was one in which no interest was felt. The state of the roads had occasioned riots in Wales, and Sir George Lewis had said the only way the people could remedy the grievance was by taking the law into their own
 2017
 MR. FAWCETT  thought it was altogether too late to raise the objections
 2062
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he apprehended that the effect of the Bill would be to increase and not as was supposed to diminish the inequalities of taxation in the metropolis. The measure would impose a charge of 2 d.
 MR. CHILDERS  confessed that he felt some difficulty in addressing the House on the subject, because, from the want of proper notice of the Resolution, no one could tell what precise proposition was to be brought forward. At the same time he could not help noticing the remarkable line taken that evening by Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench. Lord Palmerston's policy and the responsibility of the present Government in connection with it had been treated in a manner entirely undefensible. The House was pretty severely lectured the other night from the Treasury Bench upon the matter of expenditure, and told that those who did not object to any particular public expenditure were just as responsible for it as those who proposed it. If that were true, how much more responsible must be those who not only did not object to the expenditure for the fortifications, but voted for it. He had taken the trouble to refer to the record which showed who did and who did not support the particular policy with respect to these fortifications which was adopted in 1860, and he found, among other names in favour of the proposal, which was then made by the Government of Lord Palmerston on the subject, the names of the First Minister of the Crown, the Secretary of State for War, the First Lord of the Admiralty, the Secretary of State for India, and several other Gentlemen by whom his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir John Hay) was now cheered. When, therefore, his hon and gallant Friend told the House, not only that the present Government were in no way responsible for those fortifications, but that the fortifications themselves were, to a great extent, useless, his hon. and gallant Friend must excuse him for enlarging on the doctrine
 2048 "That in the opinion of this House, no further outlay on the Fortifications for the defence of the United Kingdom and of the Colonies, except such as may be absolutely necessary under existing Contracts, or to complete works which cannot be suspended without serious inconvenience, ought to be incurred until the Report of the Committee recently appointed, shall have been laid before this House."
 MR. DYCE NICOL  said: I will not detain the House beyond urging, in the strongest manner, on the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for India the severing of the present connection between the Bombay Government and the Bank of Bombay, a continuance of which exposes the Government to a repetition of the difficulty in which they are now involved with the old Bank—calculated, as it is, to degrade the authority of the Government in India, and placing it in an entirely false position by assuming a responsibility before the public which, when called on to fulfil, it is under the necessity of repudiating. The present time appears, also, opportune for dissolving this commercial partnership. The community of Bombay have in a great measure recovered from the effects of their insane speculations, and have been the chief recipients of the millions expended in the Abyssinian, expedition, while the chief article of export—namely, cotton—has, within the last few months, increased in value 100 per cent, there can be no longer any claim for the interposition of the Government credit in banking operations. I trust, therefore, that the right hon. Baronet will give early notice of the withdrawal of the Government from this co-partnership, and to intimate to the Banks of Bengal and Madras the intention of Government of adopting the same course with those institutions at the expiry of their present charters.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would accept the Amendment of the hon. Member for Pontefract.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he had no wish to inconvenience the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War, or act discourteously towards him or the House. The best course would be to move the adjournment of the debate; but as that could not be done, he should not press his Motion to a division.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he meant the Plymouth Breakwater fort, which was being constructed at Millwall. But in addition to the objections he had already made, he arraigned the fort as unsound in principle, if, indeed, there could be said to be any principle in a plan which was being altered from day to day. But however the plan might be altered or modified, it was still, and always would be, an erroneous one. The structure was of iron, placed upon stone and mortar; and in the iron construction the laminated principle was adopted—a principle which experiment had also proved to be faulty; while stone and mortar, as a base, were, as he had shown, equally so. He now came to the question of the shields. It seemed to him that prudence might have suggested to the right hon. Baronet to have stayed the erection of these shields till the Report of the Committee, which the hon. Baronet himself had appointed, was received; but he declined to prevent their being sent out, and thirty-four had actually gone to their destination, one being retained at home to be fired at. In addition, fifty of these shields were to form an integral portion of the home defences. They were to be let into the embrasures of forts, built of granite, to protect the gunners. But a shot striking the granite would dislodge the shield and expose the men inside to the fire of the enemy. In speaking upon this subject, he could not refrain from expressing his entire approval of the labours of the Committee presided over by his distinguished and gallant Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir John Hay). That Committee had done its work in a very efficient manner. He observed that fault had been found with it by some of the Press, because it had not answered the third question that was submitted to its consideration. But he thought the hon. Baronet had done perfectly right. Those who knew the hon. Baronet knew that he had a thorough knowledge of this difficult question; and those who did not know him had only to look at his examination of the various witnesses before the Committee,
 2028 2029
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the plans upon which the Fortifications for the defence of the Dockyards and Naval Arsenals of the United Kingdom, and for the defence of our Colonies, were being constructed. He wished to state at the outset that he brought forward this question in no party spirit, but purely in a national point of view. For much of the information which he had obtained on the subject he was indebted to articles which had appeared in the organ of the right hon. Gentleman opposite—the  Standard 2022 2023 2024 2025 Standard, 2026 2027
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was not in order in reading a newspaper comment on a debate which had occurred in the present Session.
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Gentleman that there being an Amendment before the House, the one he had now moved was inadmissible.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Secretary of State for War has taken exception to the terms of the Notice of the hon. Member for Cashel (Mr. O'Beirne), as not being sufficiently precise and complete, and I should wish to take the direction of the House, as to what should be the practice for the future. It is a rule of the House, that no original Motion should be made without due Notice; but of late years, on the question of going into Committee of Supply on Fridays, the Motions all partake of the nature of original Motions, though made in the form of Amendments to the Motion, "That the Speaker do now leave the Chair;" but they are, in fact, a succession of original Motions, which Members expect will be called on in due order. Now, this is a new practice, and I should like to know if it is the opinion of the House that Notices for Friday should be given in sufficient time and in as complete
 2054
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to
 2002
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he felt that the metropolis had not had opportunity enough to consider this Bill. The Bill had been hurried through the House and therefore it ought to be re-committed.
 MR. HARDCASTLE , who had given Notice of a Motion that the position of Turnpike Trusts now expired but annually renewed should be submitted to the consideration of a Select Committee, said he should not press it, but hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would appoint a Select Committee to consider the expired Turnpike Trusts Acts which might be brought under his notice; and he trusted that it would not be long before the Continuance Act was introduced.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he wished to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Royal Commission made two recommendations—one with reference to fortifications, the other with regard to floating batteries for the defence of our shores. If the matter was re-considered by the Government, it would perhaps be found that they had carried out the less important matter, and neglected the more important of the two.
 MR. SAMUDA , as an Independent Member, would say that to him it was no matter who projected or agreed with these fortifications. If, on re-examination, they were considered useless, they ought to be discontinued. After the statement of the hon. Baronet (Sir John Hay), a naval Lord
 2037 2038
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he hoped that some Gentleman connected with the Government would rise to answer the very able statement of his hon. Friend the Member for Cashel (Mr. O'Beirne). He had been forcibly struck with the appearance which the House had that evening presented. That House was represented to the public as being the guardian of the public purse. Now, if there was any prospect of a debate which would produce acrimonious recrimination or party personalities, the Benches would have been crowded, and the House would have resounded with cheers. But what had been the state of the House during the whole of the discussion? A question involving the expenditure of millions had been most ably brought forward by his hon. Friend, the representative of a condemned borough—and the highest number of Members in the House at any period during the discussion had been twenty, while the lowest had been fourteen. There were two Members of the Government on the Treasury Bench. There was not a single Member upon the front Opposition Bench, and even the hon. and learned Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) was asleep. That was the way in which a question of millions of money was debated and treated by that House. He had always taken a great interest in this question of fortifications. Its history was a melancholy one,
 2033 d. 2034 damnosa hereditas; damnosa hereditas, 2035
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, the hon. Member for Nottingham had accused him of being asleep. There would be nothing very wrong in his "taking a nap," especially after the heavy debates they had lately been listening to, but if he had been asleep during the discussion he was not aware of it. At all events he was not asleep during the astounding statement that Portsmouth and Plymouth might be done away with. It was not the first time he had heard the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Samuda) advocate the employment of private instead of public yards, and of course on the ground of "nothing like leather," it was easy to see why the hon. Member should wish to do away with the latter. With regard to these fortifications, he disapproved of them entirely, but he looked forward to no dimunition of expense so long as this old Parliament continued. He only wished the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) was there. That right hon. Gentleman had described the excellence of the late and the present
 2039
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  remarked that they made a great deal of money in England, and were on that account the admiration of the world; but they also threw away enormous sums of money without any good object. Anyone taking a common-sense view of the subject must be of opinion that £9,000,000 or £10,000,000 had been voted for fortifications which were of no use whatever. He asked the
 2032
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, the Report showed that there were in round numbers about 1,000 turnpike trusts, of which 800 were in debt, and 200 out of debt. The lettable amount of the tolls was in 1866 about £950,000, and the expense of collection and toll-rents' profits amounted at the lowest computation to about £300,000 more, bringing the total amount which the public contributed up to about £1,250,000. The whole sum expended for the repair of the roads only amounted to about £500,000 however, and in reduction of that the parishes contributed about £50,000. Now, if the repair of the roads throughout England were thrown on the parishes, those parishes would be relieved to a very large extent from the maintenance of many of the parallel roads in existence, or would only have to repair them to an extent sufficient for the agricultural purposes of the various districts. He had been able to prove to farmers who objected to having the maintenance of the roads thrown upon the rates, that if that course were adopted
 2016
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the right hon. Baronet opposite altogether misunderstood the object of his hon Friend (Mr. Childers). There were two questions involved, one was whether it was desirable that their great arsenals should be placed in a state in which they could be defended from the attack of a foreign enemy; and the other was, whether the manner in which the fortifications were being executed would best attain the end in view. His hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) had raised no doubt as to the first—he had not proposed a reversal of the present policy, or that the fortifications should not be erected. But the question raised was whether there should be an alteration in the manner of their construction? Complaints having been made that these fortifications were being erected in a way that would render them useless for their object, the Government had very properly appointed a Committee to examine into and carefully report upon
 2053
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, this was not a Government Bill, but last year the First Minister of the Crown stated that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Torrens), who introduced it, would have his sympathy. The question raised by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) was not a new one. The House, after a full discussion of the subject, had decided on adopting the area of the Metropolitan Board of Works. No sufficient reasons for re-considering that decision had been advanced either by the hon. Member or by the deputation that had waited that morning upon his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and his right hon. Friend was of opinion that there were no good grounds for re-committing the Bill.
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, that in rising to move for an Address to the Queen praying for an inquiry into the spread of disease by infection, with a view to legislation on the subject, he made no pretence to science beyond that knowledge which was founded upon facts. His only logic in connection with this matter was the inexorable logic of facts. This question he (Sir J. Clarke Jervoise) considered to be one of unbounded magnitude, and of the greatest possible interest. When he brought forward the measure last year
 2006 Pall Mall Gazette 2007 2008
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, this was one of those matters affecting the internal economy of regiments in which he should not venture to interfere with the discretion of His Royal Highness the Commander-in Chief. There was, no doubt, a good deal to be said in favour of the view advocated by his hon. Friend, and the matter, he promised, should not be lost sight of. Indeed, he believed, the Commander-in-Chief was about to make the alteration.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he had not had the opportunity of seeing the Commander-in-Chief upon the subject to which the hon. Member's Question related. Stating merely his individual opinion, he thought the occurrence of a single crime, however atrocious and much to be deplored, would not be cause sufficient for taking a step which would be felt as a slur by the whole Army, the ammunition having from time to time been confided to the care of soldiers.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that since he had come into Office he had endeavoured to deal with the question in various ways and with the utmost fairness and moderation, and he was obliged to the noble Lord opposite (Lord Elcho) for the admis-
 2052
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could feel no surprise that the hon. and learned Serjeant who had just spoken should entertain great objection to any proposal to do away with Portsmouth, but he did net intend to discuss the proposal of the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. Samuda), that it might be desirable to suspend Portsmouth and Plymouth during war. He wished, however, to refer to a statement he had made on a former evening, and to which the
 2040 "To call the attention of the House to the plans upon which the fortifications for the defence of the Dockyards and Naval Arsenals of the United Kingdom and for the defence of our Colonies are being constructed; and to move a Resolution." 2041 2042 2043 bonâ fide 2044 2045 2046 St. Pauls's Magazine. St. Paul's Magazine. St. Paul's Magazine. The Times, 2047
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  remarked that he was not Secretary of State for War at the date mentioned.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon. What does he mean by the fort erecting in the neighbourhood of London?
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  said, he supposed that, as there was "nothing like leather," it was natural that the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. Samuda) should prefer ships to forts. If the House agreed with the hon. Member that Portsmouth and Plymouth were now of no consequence, the fortifications there would no doubt be unnecessary. But the construction of those fortifications was based on the belief that the arsenals at Portsmouth and Plymouth were necessary for the maintenance of that naval supremacy upon which the hon. Member himself laid so much stress. The forts at those two places were not designed for use so long as we maintained the command of the sea; but in case that which had occurred should be repeated, and a British fleet should be compelled to retire before the advancing fleets of the enemy. That was the contingency to meet which these forts were constructed, so as, in the event of a hostile fleet getting the command of the Channel, to prevent the arsenals of Portsmouth and Plymouth from failing into the enemy's hands.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to explain to the hon. Member who, last spoke that he (Sir Stafford Northcote) was in error when he told him the other day, in answer to a question, that the Act of 1863, which made an alteration of the charter of the Bombay Bank, had not been sent home before it was sanctioned. It had not been sent to the usual Department to which these dispatches came—he meant the Judicial Department; but he now found it had been sent to the Finance Department, and
 2058 2059
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he considered that the investment of the public money in fortifications was essentially a bad one, and that, as pointed out in a former debate by General Peel, the real defence of the country was to be found in the fleet and in floating batteries. They had been in reality throwing the money of the national Treasury into the sea. The proposal for the construction of the fortifications was made and agreed to at a time of national panic, when it was supposed that an enemy was about to invade us. But during the past eight years no enemy had invaded them, though the forts had not been constructed, and why should they go on spending this enormous sum of public money on such a chimerical idea? Besides, an enemy would never attempt to land in the face of forts, but would seek some other part of the coast on which to land. They must remember that when the fortifications were constructed, an enormous expense would have to be incurred to defend them; and they would, after all, be perfectly useless. He was glad he was one of the thirty-nine Members who, from the very first, protested and voted against this extravagant expenditure, and was sorry that the House did not take the advice of the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), who so justly pointed out that, in the event of an enemy landing, they might, by means of the existing railway communication, concentrate troops in a few hours, in any part of the kingdom. No real economy would be effected for the nation, until the execution of these fortifications was totally suspended. Believing that the fortifications, when constructed, would be utterly useless, he would move that all investments in fortifications should, from the present time, cease and determine.
 MR. M. T. BASS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether his attention has been drawn to a practice, said to have been adopted in India, for restoring unsound Malt Liquor supplied to the Troops; and. whether he will lay upon the Table of the House any Correspondence on the subject?
 THE EARL OF MAYO : In answer to the hon. Gentleman, I beg to say that the Lord Lieutenant did not address the Cardinal as "His Eminence the Cardinal Archbishop of Dublin."
 MR. CORRY  said, it was very important to go on with Supply without delay, as only a very small portion of the Estimates had at present been agreed to. Under these circumstances he appealed to the hon. Members for Rye (Captain Mackinnon) and Tavistock (Mr. Samuda) to postpone the Motions of which they had given notice.
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, that his Motion was of such importance that he must decline to postpone it. He received his early training in the old wooden walls of the navy of England, and retained vivid impressions of the strict, but just, discipline of that magnificent fleet. He
 20 Army and Navy Gazette Hercules, Invincible, Monarch, Monitor, 21 Bellerophon Achilles Achilles Achilles, Bellerophon Achilles Bellerophon Achilles, Bellerophon The Times Achilles Bellerophon Bellerophon Achilles. Achilles Bellerophon 22 Bellerophon's Achilles. Achilles Bellerophon Bellerophon Achilles Warrior, Black Prince, Achilles, Minotaur, Agincourt, Northumberland, Bellerophon Achilles, Bellerophon Achilles 23 Warrior Bellerophon Achilles, 24 Bellerophon. Danaë, Inconstant Vixen Waterwitch. 25 Vixen Medusa. Vixen Medusa Vixen Medusa, Bellerophon Hercules, Enterprise Research, Audacious 26 Repulse, Zealous Bellerophon.
 MR. CORRY  said, he was quite ready to acknowledge that he had never found greater difficulty in deciding on any question than on that to which the hon. Member for Tavistock had called attention. There was much to be said on both sides. His hon. Friend (Mr. Samuda) had stated the case in relation to the competitive designs very fairly, except in his remarks about the reference to the Controller of the Navy. His hon. Friend could not suppose that an unscientific Board like that of the Admiralty could decide on the design of a ship until it had been submitted to an examination by their scientific advisers. It always had been the practice to refer to the Controller designs sent in by private builders for ships of war. He would not say that the Admiralty were bound by the opinion of that officer; but undoubtedly they must be very much influenced by it; and he must express his opinion that the Board would undertake a very great responsibility if they decided upon building a ship, the design of which the Controller did not approve. Much fault had been found with all the designs in matters of detail, except, perhaps, that of the Messrs. Laird, which had been highly praised by the Controller and the Chief Constructor; but he would state presently why he and his Colleagues had not thought it inadvisable to adopt it, though from the first he had entertained a secret hope that a design for a turret ship might be accepted. His hon. Friend was not correct in supposing that Mr. Reed had been allowed to compete. He had sent in a plan, and there was nothing to prevent the Controller or the Chief Constructor from submitting a plan for a ship at any time he might think proper; but he had not been asked to compete, nor was his design taken into consideration in competition with that of Messrs. Laird and the other competitors. If Mr. Reed had praised his own ship and found fault with the ships of other people, he (Mr. Corry) had nothing to do with that. His hon. Friend had quoted remarks of his some years ago in favour of building a turret ship; but those remarks were made before the experiment of building a sea-
 33 Captain Monarch Captain; Minotaur Wyvern. 34 Captain Monarch Bellerophon Achilles, Achilles Bellerophon;
 MR. CORRY , in rising to propose the Navy Estimates, said: Mr. Chairman—Sir, I fear that in the performance of the duty which now devolves upon me I shall have to trespass at some length on the indulgence of the Committee, of which, on more than one ground, I stand in need. I therefore think that I shall best consult the convenience of the Committee if I abstain from further preface, and at once proceed to explain the Estimates I have risen to propose. I will first advert to the increase in the amount required to be voted for the present year over the Estimates for the last year, and explain that it is only apparent. The amount of the excess is £201,037, and it arises from the sum of £203,292, on account of supplies to other Departments having been included in the Estimates for the year 1868–9, under the Votes specified, for which there was no corresponding provision in, the preceding year. Under a recent decision of the Treasury, the re-payments for these supplies are to be made direct to the Exchequer, instead of being credited, as heretofore, to the naval Votes. It is therefore necessary to provide for the purchase of these supplies in the Estimates; but
 35 36 37 38 "They," that is the squadrons "which France maintains on sixteen stations, in all parts of the world, protect political and maritime interests as considerable as they are varied. They give security to commercial transactions representing five milliards and 321,000,000 francs, of which two milliards 475,000,000 francs are under the French flag. With this efficacious protection the commercial relations of our country are extended and developed more and more every year, and it is certain that the navy must be maintained in some degree in proportion to the commercial interests it has to protect." note préliminaire 39 "Besides supporting the political and commercial relations of a nation, the foreign squadrons are excellent schools for making sailors." "Although, if our naval forces were withdrawn from distant stations, a reduction could easily be made in the number of ships in commission, the work in our dockyards would be diminished, the demand for naval stores lessened, and the establishments abroad abolished, such a policy would be seriously detrimental to the future efficiency of the British navy, would disorganize the whole system, and leave this country in a few years without experienced officers and well-trained seamen." 40 41 Aboukir Terror 42 Egmont Nereus Charybdis "We appear to have taken on ourselves the ' Quixotic duty of being sole protectors of the commerce of every civilized nation," 43 "A similar course had been recommended by the representatives of those other Powers who had naval forces in Japanese waters." Ocean Rodney 44 Satellite Seringapatam. Racoon, Valorous. Bristol, Rattlesnake, 45 46 bonâ fide esprit de corps, 47 per contra, Trafalgar, 48 49 50 d. 51 52 53 Monarch, Hercules, Penelope, Repulse, Inconstant; Juno Thalia; Blanche Danäe 54 Captain, Audacious Invincible Inconstant, Inconstant Vanguard Volage Staunch, 55 Active, Volage, Active, Volage. Active 56 Active, Penelope, Hercules, Repulse. Repulse, 57 Active Captain. nil. 58 Captain, Audacious, Invincible, Vanguard; Active Volage. Repulse Monarch, Inconstant, 59 Druid Briton. Druid Briton Druid, Briton, Iron Duke, Audacious, Invincible, Vanguard; 60 Sultan, Hercules, Monarch Monarch Triumph, Audacious, 61 Swiftsure Triumph, Monarch Captain Monitor Glatton; 62 Hotspur, Hotspur Triumph, Sultan, Iron Duke Monarch, Repulse, 63 Cerberus Monarch, Repulse, Monarch Repulse Inconstant; Spartan Sirius; Curlew Swallow Captain; Volage Active; Cerberus, Cerberus, 64 Cerberus. 65 Black Prince, Agincourt, Valiant, Northumberland, Hector, Resistance, Hercules. Royal Sovereign, Prince Albert, Scorpion, Vixen, Ariadne Liverpool. Irresistible in extenso, 66 Wellesley, Cornwall Bristol, Britannia. Bristol, Britannia Bristol 67 "Since I was last employed the greatest change I see in the service is the great improvement in the appearance and conduct of the men in the ships." "During the twelve months terminating June, 1867, the health of the navy may be said to have been in a most satisfactory condition. Although diseases of more or less fatal character were epidemic on many stations, the ratio of cases entered on the sick-list of invaliding and of death were the lowest that had occurred during a period of eleven years." 68 "The iron-clad vessels continue to hold a favourable position in a sanitary point of view. The entry of cases on their sick lists were among the lowest of sea-going vessels." 69 Victoria s. s. s. s. s.
 MR. CORRY  explained, that the re-organization of the force involving this addition, had for its object, the placing of the Marines on the same footing with respect to promotion as other seniority corps. It was not just that the officers of the Marines should be put in a worse position than those in the Artillery and Engineers.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he would inquire as to the discrepancy, but he bad spoken under the authority of the director of works. The next point to which his hon. Friend referred was the Vote connected with the dockyards. His hon. Friend referred to the question discussed last year of filling up the place of established artificers as they died off by hired labourers. He himself last year had expressed a doubt whether that policy could be carried out, and it had been abandoned. His hon. Friend had been rather severe on the Admiralty. He criticized the increase in the three dockyards, but did not state that that increase consisted of one single man in the three yards. In 1864, when his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract was in Office, he fixed as the lowest rate the dockyard artificers at 9,575; and under the present Board of Admiralty they were at 9,140, or 400 less than his hon. Friend had laid down as necessary. His hon. Friend next alluded to our foreign squadrons, and he took credit there for having enforced the policy of reduction; but he must take exception to his hon. Friend's remarks on this point also. He should say it was he who was the first that was guilty of what might perhaps be called the official indiscretion of throwing out a hint as to whether there might not be some reduction in their foreign squadrons. When he spoke last year about these foreign squadrons,
 82 83
 THE CHAIRMAN  called the attention of the Committee to a point of Order. It was understood the other night that the general discussion on the Navy Estimates usually taken on the number of men, should this year be taken in the Vote for wages, it being important that the Vote for men should be obtained without delay. Now, they had on the Vote for the amount of wages a Motion proposed for the reduction of a particular item, and the rule was that when a Motion was proposed from the Chair for the reduction or omission of a particular item the discussion should be confined to it.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, there was no proposition for an increase of officers in the Marines this year. There was a slight increase in the number to be employed it was true; but the Committee would understand that it was impossible to discharge officers of the Marines who had already entered. In the reorganization of the corps, recommended by the Committee last year, it was found that the companies of the Royal Marines were too numerous, and that it was necessary for the convenience of the service to add a second captain to forty-six companies, a proportion juster and more in accordance with all other seniority corps of the army. The percentage of officers in the Marines was even now much lower than that of the officers in any other branch of the service. The hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) must remember that, in the Committee over which he presided so ably last year, that point was brought forward, together with the slowness of promotion in the Marines. For the efficiency of the corps, and also to make the rate of promotion in it correspond with that of the other seniority branches of the service, it
 86
 MR. GLADSTONE : Mr. Chairman—Sir, I must confess I am quite at a loss, from the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who has just sat down, to understand how it is that a reduction in the number of men should have lead to an increase in the number of officers. [Sir JOHN HAY: There has been an increase in the number of companies.] But then it is a very doubtful matter whether the number of companies ought to be increased. Why should we not let the number of men decrease without increasing the numbers of the companies. I do not understand the meaning of the hon. and gallant Member (General Percy Herbert), who compares the number of officers in the Marines with the number of officers in other branches of the service. It appears to me better to compare the number of officers in the Marines now with the number of officers in the same force at former periods. What proof is there that the number of officers is insufficient? Has there been any complaint that they were too few? The first business of those who wish to justify an increase in the number of officers is to show that the Marines have suffered in action from want of more officers. [General PERCY HERBERT: The complaint may not have been made in this House.] Why should it not have been made in this House through the hon. and gallant Gentleman with his knowledge, his eagerness, and his zeal in those matters? This is only an illustration of the fact that it is impossible for Members acting independently, without the organization of the Government, to force the adoption of economy in such cases. But something may be done by drawing the attention of the public to the matter. We have distinct indication of the intent on the part of the Government to continue the progressive increase in the reserve force of marines kept on shore. We have the Return of the numbers since the 1st March, 1849, arranged in periods of five years. In the first period the highest number was 6,354, in the second period 6,277, in the third 8,086, and in the fourth 10,032. In point of fact, there is a regular increase in the reserve force on shore, and also an increase in the proportion of officers to men. I do not think any justification has been made out for one or the other, I am glad to find that my
 87
 MR. CORRY  said, he did not know upon what ground the right hon. Gentleman stated that the reserve force of Royal Marines on shore was now increasing. The right hon. Gentleman had gone back to 1847; but since then a large augmentation had been made to the force by the recommendation of a Royal Commission on the manning of the Navy, who looked on the Marines as a very effective addition to our naval strength, and one giving us a valuable power for meeting a time of emergency. When, however, the right hon. Gentleman said the force was still going on increasing, he could hardly have read the present Estimates, because they proposed a positive reduction of 1,700 men; and he believed the reserve on shore would this year be at least 1,200, and possibly 1,300 or 1,400 less than it was last year. Therefore, so far from increasing the reserve of marines on shore, these Estimates would affect a considerable reduction. He confessed he was surprised that a Gentleman so well versed in naval affairs, and possessing so sound a judgment
 88
 COLONEL SYKES  then rose to move to reduce the whole Vote by the sum of £20,000. He said his object was less to reduce the annually increasing expenditure of the Navy, than to diminish the annual sacrifice of valuable lives on the West Coast of Africa. The First Lord of the Admiralty spoke of having reduced the number of vessels at the out stations abroad by 18. That surely implied a reduction in the item of wages, victuals, &c. Yet, there was a net increase of £85,000 for wages, and of £91,000 for victuals, in the Navy Estimates for the present year. On the 23rd of Match last he (Colonel Sykes) obtained a Return showing the number of vessels on the West Coast of Africa for the years from 1858 to 1868, and within two days of the date of that Return, the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) had moved for another Return embracing the distribution of the Naval Forces for each year from 1847 to 1867. Between these Returns there was a very great discrepancy. According to the Return granted on his (Colonel Sykes's) Motion there were, in 1858, 25 vessels with 2,038 officers and men on the West Coast of Africa, while, according to the Return moved for by the hon. Member for Reading there were in the six years 24 vessels with 2,324 men. For the year 1867 the Return of the hon. Member for Reading gave 19 vessels with 1,894 men, while his Return again showed 25 vessels, with 2,134 men. Discrepancies ran
 89 90
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he was rather afraid that his hon. and gallant Friend had been misled by the extreme accuracy of the Return to which he had referred. By that Return it appeared the number of vessels on the African coast was 25, those vessels carrying 143 guns; but on reference to the page of the Return before the one on which those figures were given, his hon. and gallant Friend would find it so happened that, at the very time he moved for the Return, six of the vessels had been ordered home, and one was about to be paid off. Those six vessels were on the station at the moment, and so were their reliefs. The  Bristol Rattlesnake, 91
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that before replying to the questions of his hon. Friend, he wished to bear testimony to the great success which had attended nearly all the remedial measures introduced by Lord Clarence Paget. His hon. Friend had expressed gratification at the efforts of those now in Office, whom he had been
 80 81
 COLONEL SYKES  said, as it appeared from the statement of the hon. Baronet (Sir John Hay) that a reduction had been made in the number of vessels, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, the Government have decided that, until the House has had an opportunity of coming to some decision upon the evidence taken before the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Committee, it would be safe to allow cattle from Normandy, Brittany, Spain, and Portugal to Liverpool and Southampton to proceed to inland markets by rail, on condition that the shipper enters into a bond stating that the ships in which he imports cattle have not within a stated period carried cattle from any other countries but those, and have not touched at the ports of any other country on the transit.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, this Bill was down as the second Order for Thursday, but as he must ask the House to go into Committee on the Boundary Bill on that day, and as it seemed to be the wish of the Scotch Members that the Scotch Reform Bill should stand as the first Order on the day it was proposed to take it, he must fix some other day for it.
 MR. DISRAELI : I beg, Sir, in answer to the right hon. and learned Gentleman, to say that I think he must allow me to judge myself of the propriety of my conduct in endeavouring to bring about, as I wish anxiously to do, the earliest possible dissolution of this House. With a view to that result I am as desirous as he can be that the Scotch Reform Bill should be discussed in Committee without any unnecessary delay; but I must take everything into consideration when arranging the course of Business, and I do not think I am open to the charge of having been guilty of any neglect in respect of this Bill. Propositions which interfered with the Government Business were brought forward by other persons, but I could not prevent that, It is of great importance that the Boundary Bill should be proceeded with on Thursday, and, therefore, the Scotch Reform Bill cannot be placed first on that day. I believe it would not be satisfactory to have it put down as the second Order on the day when it is intended to discuss it, but I will give it the first evening I can after Thursday.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, no communication of any kind whatever took place between the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland and Her Majesty's Government on account of
 17
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that under the provisions of the Confederation
 18
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, on the occasion of the reception of the Prince of Wales, made inquiry of the Government by what style and title he was to invite and receive Cardinal Cullen; whether he was instructed to address him in the invitation by the title of "His Eminence the Cardinal Archbishop of Dublin;" if not, by what title; and, whether, on that occasion, precedence was granted to Cardinal Cullen immediately after the Royal Family, and before the Archbishops of the Established Church in Ireland, the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and the whole of the English and Irish Nobility?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : The right hon. Gentleman, Sir, has not answered the Question I put, which was, whether the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in inviting Cardinal Cullen, addressed him by the title of "His Eminence the Cardinal Archbishop of Dublin?"
 MR. GREENE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he considers that the habit of taking the lowest tender for beer for the supply of the Troops in India is calculated to give the Troops a sound, wholesome beverage; and, whether he has thought it desirable to ascertain if at the price accepted for last season's supply it was possible to produce beer calculated to travel eight thousand miles by sea and a thousand or two thousand miles by land and be fit for the Soldiers to drink?
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Speaker, Whether it is competent to a Member to give notice of the names of hon. Members to serve upon a Committee, when the House has not even decided that the Bill which was the subject of his notice should be referred to a Select Committee?
 MR. CHILDERS  had no objection to advancing promotion in the Marines by a sound scheme of retirement, but certainly not by increasing the establishment. A smaller number of men, involving a reduction from £362,000 to £344,000, could not require a larger number of officers, involving an increase from £63,000 to £67,000. The Estimates lay on the table three weeks before they were printed; and he could not help thinking that during that interval, a reduction having been insisted on, the Admiralty had made it at the last moment in the number of men in the Marines, the officers being inadvertently left untouched. He saw no reason why the reduction should not be carried to 12,000. Even now it was proposed to employ 8,000 marines afloat and 6,700 on shore. The latter were engaged in doing purely soldiers' duty, and were an unnecessarily large reserve. Whatever the value of Marine artillery, the Light Infantry Marine could not be very highly estimated in these days of steam, and the reduction might properly commence with them. He thought a saving would be effected by remedying the oversight with regard to the officers, and he would move that the Vote of £525,725 for the wages of Marines be reduced by £60,000.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he felt sure the apology with which his right hon. Friend had prefaced his statement was quite superfluous; for, however much his hearers must sympathize with him, all must agree that a clearer or more satisfactory statement than his could not have been made. His right hon. Friend had shown he was complete master of a subject in which, either privately or officially, he had interested himself during the last quarter of a century. The announcements of his right hon. Friend were particularly pleasing to Members who sat on that (the Opposition) side, especially those relating to the health and general condition of the seamen, because they justified the legislation on the subject initiated by the late Government, and warmly advocated by Lord Clarence Paget. The comparison drawn by his right hon. Friend between the Estimates of this and last year gave the Opposition cause for satisfaction. Last year he had called attention to the possible reductions of our squadrons; a question which, though perhaps not wholly novel to the House, had never been thoroughly discussed. He stated last year that our foreign squadrons might be considerably reduced, the difference being partly made up by means of a flying squadron. This proposal contemplated an immediate reduction of 2,000 men and an ultimate reduction of 4,000. But the right hon. Gentleman now said he was in a position to make an immediate reduction of 2,768 men and fifteen ships, with a prospective reduction at the close of the Abyssinian War of eighteen ships and 3,208 men, so that a greater reduction of men was now proposed than he (Mr. Childers) had suggested last year. On the general question he had pointed out the principle on which the Government might economize in naval expenditure—namely, by a reduction in the number of men, by a general watchful economy throughout the Estimates, and by ceasing to build wooden ships; but he recommended a greater increase in the expenditure on armoured ships. These views had been carried out by his right hon. Friend. Unfortunately, he was committed by his predecessor to the construction of a number of small wooden ships; but he
 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 Glatton Hotspur 79
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the sum which should have been taken last year was £517,000, whereas the Estimate this year was £420,000.
 MR. CHILDERS  hoped that, as his right hon. Friend had reduced the squadron by 460 men and further reductions were contemplated, the hon. and gallant Member would not press his Amendment to a division. If the number were to be reduced by 500 or 600 men beyond the reduction proposed by the Government the squadron would be considerably crippled.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, it would be well if the right hon. Gentleman were to
 19
 MR. SPEAKER : Such a notice as that would be of no effect.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, that he wished to call attention to the Parliamentary Return, No. 26, entitled "The Navy (Designs for Ships)," ordered to be printed on the 3d December last, relative to the designs for war ships furnished by private shipbuilding firms on an invitation from the Admiralty, and to the course taken by the Admiralty in respect to them. This was a subject which he thought could be better dealt with in the House than in Committee. In June, 1867, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Corry) informed the House that, in addition to what was proposed to be done in the Estimates, it was his intention to build another iron-clad, and to avail himself of the experience and ability of private builders for that purpose. Application was accordingly made to seven of the principal shipbuilding firms, calling on them to supply the Government with plans, designs, specifications, and drawings,
 27 Warrior. 28 29 Invincible, Invincible 30 Invincible Invincible 31 Prince Henry, Crown Prince, Prince Henry Crown Prince 32
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he had never heard it stated that the Royal Marines were not sufficiently officered, and therefore he was inclined to agree with the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) that this Vote for the Royal Marines was not well explained. They were told that the number of men was to be reduced, but at the same time the number of officers was to be increased. Looking at this question as a civilian, he would ask why, while they reduced the number of men, they should increase the number of officers. He did not think there could be a finer body of men than the Royal Marines. It ought to be considered whether they ought to be kept up as a land force, and, if that were not done, it might be well to consider whether the force should not be reduced. He should vote for the reduction of the item in order that the Admiralty might make a consistent reduction in the Estimates.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council for Education, Whether the Government have come to any determination as to the relaxation of the rules relating to the importation of Cattle from Spain, Portugal, and France, into the Ports of Liverpool and Southampton?
 MR. GRAVES  said, that he would strictly confine himself to the point indicated by the Chairman, and endeavour to show the Committee why there should be no further reduction in the present Vote; and one reason was that inasmuch as the reduction in the number of men had been attended with no diminution of expenditure; but, on the contrary, with an increase of something like £85,000. If they should diminish the force more than was proposed by the Government, the expense might be still further increased. That, therefore, was not the right way to reduce the Estimates. With respect to our seamen, year by year there had been a gradual dropping down in their numbers, and he thought they ought to arrest that diminution. The Returns presented this year showed that the number of our  bonâ fide 84 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, When the Scotch Reform Bill will come on; and whether it will be the first Order of the Day?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  remarked, that the Admiralty had wasted a great deal of money in victualling the men.
 SIR CHARLES LANYON  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether negotiations are now in progress for the transfer of the Hudson Bay Company's territory; and, if so, at what period the transfer was likely to be made?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, it was a lamentable thing that so many of our officers and men lost their lives or their health in our attempt to suppress the slave trade by cruizing on the African coast. If that trade was to be suppressed, it must be by suppressing the market for slaves. He feared that the measures we took only increased the sufferings of the unfortunate persons who were stowed away in the slavers. If his hon. and gallant Friend moved to put an end to this cruizing altogether, except so far as the interests of our trade required it, he should give him his support.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied that it was the intention of Major General Lindsay to visit Scotland early in July and inspect as many of the Militia and as many of the Volunteers as he could. He was afraid that the gallant General would not be able to inspect them all himself; but those whom he could not inspect would be inspected by the Assistant Inspector. Until the new system was further tried, he was unable to say whether the number or the pay of the Inspectors would be increased; but when they should have had more experience of the system, both questions—that of additional assistance and that of increased pay—should be fairly considered.
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  said, he thought that the criticisms of the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) with
 85
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) knew everything, and therefore he despaired of teaching him anything. But if he got two officers of Volunteers as clever as himself, he would find 80 to 100 men in a company quite enough for three officers to look after.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the duty of inspecting the Militia in Scotland is now to be in-trusted to the Inspectors of Reserved Forces; and, whether any increase of pay will be awarded to those officers in consideration of the increased responsibilities thus imposed upon them?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, it was not the case that the lowest tender for beer was taken as a matter of course. Specified particulars were sent to the brewers, the brewing was effected under the inspection of officers, and chemical tests were subsequently applied. More than that, the brewers were bound to furnish the Inland Revenue with certificates in respect of the brewing. This system had hitherto worked very satisfactorily, no complaints having been made of the quality of the beer supplied to the troops.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that his attention was drawn to this question last autumn; and, after receiving from the Government in India an explanation of the practice pursued, it was thought advisable to refer the question to high chemical authority in this
 16
 SIR T. F. BUXTON  admitted it to be a melancholy fact that a great number of lives had been sacrificed in the attempts to suppress the slave trade; but he thought it would not be fair to measure the good we did by the number of slavers captured, any more than it would be to estimate the advantage of our Coastguard by the number of smugglers apprehended. He believed that in both cases much good was done in the way of prevention. The Commissary Judge at Havannah stated that the return of the trade between Africa and Cuba for the past year was unaccompanied by any statement of the landing of slaves. That functionary believed, however, it would be unsafe to assume that the slave trade had ceased because it had become almost invisible. The condition of the West Coast
 92
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, with reference to Parliamentary Paper No. 575, of Session 1867, Whether that Paper correctly describes the Bishopric of Columbia as endowed with property derived from a benefaction of Miss Burden Coutts; whether it is not the fact that the Bishoprics of Adelaide and Capetown have been endowed in like manner by the same donor; and, if so, whether the Return might not with propriety be amended so as to describe the three foundations with the same correctness and precision?
 THE EARL OF MAYO : A correspondence has taken place between Her Majesty's Government and the two prelates appointed at the meeting of the Irish Roman Catholic hierarchy held in Dublin to communicate with the Government on the part of the Archbishops and Bishops. That correspondence is now nearly complete and it will be my duty, I hope in a few days, to lay it on the table of the House. No steps will be taken as regards a Charter for the Catholic University till the House is in possession of the correspondence.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Having heard the gracious Answer to the Address of this House, I wish to give notice that tomorrow I will move for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent for a limited time any new appointments to the Church in Ireland, and to restrain for the same period, in certain respects, the proceedings of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. I suppose it will be the wish of the House to have the Bill in print as soon as possible, and I will make a Motion to that effect at any period of the Sitting to-morrow when I may be at liberty to do so.
 MR. WHITE  said, he was much surprised that the language of the hon Member for Peterborough (Mr. Hankey) varied so widely from what it was a little time ago, on this very question. The present system of audit was established under the Act of 1866 (29 & 30  Vict 125 s d 126 s d 127 "Yes; I have no doubt, in his pure character of auditor, although he was aware the Chancellor had either committed a fraud in passing the Resolution, or had been imposed upon by fraud; if the Chancellor persisted in the Minute, it would be the auditor's duty to sign it." 128
 MR. GLADSTONE  rose to make an appeal to his hon. Friend. He begged him to observe the position in which he proposed to place the House. The Motion consisted of two Resolutions, the first of which was—
 "That those who conduct the audit of Public Accounts on behalf of the House of Commons ought to be independent of the Executive Government, and directly responsible to this House." "That, inasmuch as the appointment, salaries, and pensions of the officers intrusted with the conduct of such audit are more or less under the
 136
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  thanked the hon. Member (Sir Massey Lopes) for bringing forward the subject, which it was quite true excited great interest, and was very much debated in the whole of the West of England. He desired to assure the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) that those who had given any consideration to this subject had never denied that houses and lands were in the same position as regarded this question, and he was glad that the owners and occupiers of houses had at length began to speak out upon it. As Sir Robert Walpole had once said, the country gentlemen were like their own sheep, because they would submit without speaking to any amount of shearing, whereas the commercial interests of the country more
 158
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that he was reluctant to initiate opposition to a Bill introduced by his hon.
 162 163 164
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, as it might be convenient that the House should know what course the Government proposed to take, he rose thus early in the debate. His hon. Friend (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) had made a speech which would have been more appropriate on the second reading. If his hon. Friend had been in the House when the Bill was read a second time, he might have been saved the trouble of making many of the observations he had just delivered, because similar remarks had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Richmond, and were answered by the Government at the time. It was unnecessary for him to defend the course of those who desired to legislate upon this subject while a Commission was inquiring into it, seeing that on a more important question than this, the House was willing to legislate without waiting until the Commission now sitting upon it had made their Report. The reason why the Government had assented to the second reading of this Bill was that they had been informed that there was considerable pressure for legislation upon this subject. The provisions of the Bill were only intended to serve a temporary purpose, and they could be easily altered in the event of their being inconsistent with the recommendations in the Report of the Commission. He agreed with the hon. Member that the boatmen of the ports on the East and South coasts were a much abused race, and probably they deserved a good deal of that abuse, but got rather more than their de-
 165 166
 MR. GORST  said, he objected to any temporary legislation upon this subject, and hoped that the Law Officers of the Crown would favour the House with the reasons which had induced them to advise the Government to assent to the second reading of the Bill. He could see no reason why the Bill should be passed before the Report of the Royal Commission was obtained. He therefore moved that the House should go into Committee that day six months. There was at present the option, in salvage cases where the property did not exceed £1,000, of applying to two magistrates or to the Comity Court; but he had been informed that at Liverpool the latter course had never been resorted to. Nor would the Bill lead to any more speedy despatch of business; for the County Courts were already overloaded with the Equity and Probate jurisdiction which had been conferred on them, and he believed the addition now proposed would lead to greater delay and vexation than attended proceedings in the London Court of Admiralty. He doubted, too, whether County Court Judges were competent to deal with such recondite questions. The Judges, who had generally been barristers in limited practice, were not likely to be versed in the mysterious and recondite questions that would be submitted to them. Lastly, the ports that would be chiefly affected by the Bill were all in the highest degree averse to the proposition.
 MR. FRESHFIELD,  as a Member interested in the Cinque Ports, opposed the Bill. County Court Judges had already quite sufficient to do. It was clear that they could not be conversant with every department of law, and this was a matter in which they were likely to be especially ignorant. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Cave) seemed to be very ill informed as to the constitution of the Cinque Ports. There was in them an Admiralty Court as ancient as the High Court of Admiralty, and it was presided over by Sir Robert Phillimore. The Cinque Porte, moreover, had a peculiar local Court. The Lord Warden had power to select "substantial men," any three of whom could determine claims for salvage. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred these claims were very trivial, and were decided readily and promptly. A power of appeal to the Court of Admiralty existed, but was rarely exercised. A
 167
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he wished to point attention to the provisions of the Bill as at present printed. He could not but think that many hon. Gentlemen had not read the reprint of the Bill. The avowed object of the original Bill was to facilitate the trial of cases which, from the small amount at stake, it was inconvenient to carry to the Court of Admiralty. To remedy the failure of justice which consequently occured, the hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Hull proposed, in the first instance, to confer Admiralty jurisdiction, in all Admiralty cases where the claim did not exceed £500, on twenty-two County Courts named in the Bill, appointing a Judge to each of these with a salary of £2,000 a year. This would have involved an expense to the country of £44,000 a year, and the jurisdiction thus given would have been rather formidable. The grievance, he had thought, might be met by a much less cumbrous machinery than the original Bill contained. The object to be desired was to give a local and speedy trial in certain, not in all cases, by an Admiralty mode of procedure, not by means of Admiralty jurisdiction. He had therefore suggested to the author of the Bill certain alterations, which would in his opinion greatly improve it, and he hoped render it acceptable to the House. First of all he said there should not be twenty-two County Courts named in the Bill; but where it was thought necessary or desirable a jurisdiction should be given to a County Court, similar to, but not the same as Admiralty jurisdiction. That should be done by Order in Council, and without increasing the charge on the country. Jurisdiction would be given not in nil but only in some Admiralty causes. Wherever a cause of action mentioned in the Bill arose within the County Court district so appointed, the suit would be commenced, not by seizing the ship, but by a summons served on the captain of the
 168
 MR. NORWOOD  thought, with regard to the Cinque Ports, it would be objectionable to have two tribunals in the same district.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  pointed out that the retention of the Cinque Ports Court would be perfectly consistent with the principle of the Bill—namely, the establishment of local courts; and as the jurisdiction would only be a concurrent one—and there existed a strong feeling in favour of retaining it in the district—ho suggested that it might be desirable to continue it.
 MAJOR DICKSON  wished, in correction of a mistake that had been made, to say that the Commissioners of the Cinque Ports were not mere tradesmen. They thoroughly understood the questions which came before them, and their decisions were well worthy of confidence. He should be glad to know when the Commission On this subject were expected to make their Report.
 MR. NORWOOD  confessed that he was not disposed to wait for the Report of the Judicature Commission. He begged leave to remind his hon. Friend that there was a Report presented to that House not long ago, relating to transactions at Deal, which were not altogether of a satisfactory nature, and ns to the observations of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Gorst), he must remind the House of the significant fact that the only petition against this Bill was from the Amalgamated Law Society. He would briefly state the reasons that had induced him, with his Friends, to introduce this Bill. The question of Admiralty jurisdiction by local Courts had been discussed for several years past, and it was a question which they, in the North of England especially, felt strongly upon. In the year 1865, a Bill, emanating from Newcastle, was introduced, which was withdrawn on the undertaking of the Board of Trade to deal with the question. The re presentatives of the seaports still continued to press the wants of their constituents upon the Government, and last year the Board of Trade introduced a Bill which contained provisions almost identical with those of his Bill. It gave, for instance, complete Admiralty jurisdiction to the County Courts, fixed upon limits precisely the same as his; and, in point of fact, the only difference between their Bill and his was this, that they proposed to give extended jurisdiction to the High Court of Admiralty, which was objected to pending the inquiry of the Judicature Commission. His Bill avoided all those points of dispute, and merely confined itself to giving to the local Court certain jurisdiction. Now, with regard to the selection of the County Courts, it would he impossible to find a tribunal better suited to the object in view. They were Courts that existed throughout the entire country, and to which there was every facility of access. With regard to the Courts of Record at Liverpool and Hull, the objection to them was this, that they sat only once in three months, and they could not, therefore, give that summary jurisdiction which a County Court would afford. He could not sufficiently impress on the Committee the importance of this point. Take the case of a foreign ship entering an English port—she might, under present circumstances, be detained, and the case tried in the Admiralty Court of England, whereas, if this Bill became law, the captain of that foreign ship would be able to have recourse to the local Court at an expense consider-
 170
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that the Bill in its present form was not acceptable to the commercial community of Liverpool; but, after the explanation of the Solicitor General, he would not object to considering it in Committee, with the hope that the Amendment of his hon. Colleague (Mr. Graves), conferring the requisite jurisdiction on the Passage Court of Liverpool, might be agreed to.
 MR. GHILDERS  thought that he was quite safe in saying that the Judicature Commission would not report in time to influence the legislation of the present Session. Indeed, if they reported during the winter, it was hardly probable that the Government would be able to pass any measure founded upon its Report next year. While he did not agree with many of the provisions of this Bill, yet on the question of delaying it till the Commission reported, he was not in a position to oppose it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not know when the Judicature Commission would make its Report. This Bill might be entirely upset by subsequent legislation, or it might be in harmony with the Report of the Commission. He thought a strong case had been made out for providing a remedy for existing evils, and it seemed right that the Bill should be considered in Commitee.
 MR. NORWOOD  assented to this suggestion, and the Amendment was withdrawn in order that the Cinque Ports Admiralty jurisdiction might be retained by an alteration in the Schedule of the Bill.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, the Court of Passage sat quarterly only, and that would lead to a most unsatisfactory state of things.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, he proposed that the second reading of the Bill should be postponed.
 MR. VANCE  complained of the Bill being continually put on the Paper and then adjourned. It was inconvenient to Members to have to attend and then find that the Bill was put off.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, that being the case, he would move the second reading of the Bill. His object in postponing it was to suit the convenience of Members. The object of the Bill was to assimilate the law of England and Scotland to Ireland with reference to the presence of the military at Parliamentary elections. The military were not only allowed to be present at elections in Ireland, but were employed to escort voters to the poll, thereby causing great dissatisfaction, and interfering with the freedom of election. The practice not only caused dissatisfaction amongst the people of Ireland, but was objectionable to the military engaged in the service. The English Act, passed in 1741, provided that the military should be removed two miles from the place of election; and, if the Secretary of War neglected to carry out the law, he was to be deprived of his office. There must have been an exception made in favour of the Household troops; because it appeared that the presence of the Guards at an election of Westminster caused the House to pass a Resolution declaring that it was a violation of the law. In 1847 another Act was passed, directing that, instead of removing the military two miles from the place of election, they should be confined to their barracks during the election, and that was the Act which he proposed by this Bill to extend to Ireland. In England, the military might be called on in case of necessity; but it must be shown that the necessity was so strong as to supersede the law. If they searched the records of English elections, they would find a degree of disorder utterly unknown at elections in Ireland; and therefore it could not be urged that, though the law might be fit for England, it was not for Ireland, in consequence of the greater prevalence of rioting at Irish elections. Even if there were a peculiar tendency to riot at elections, it was caused
 173 cortège
 THE EARL OF MAYO  regretted that, without Notice, the hon. Member had arraigned the conduct of the stipendiary magistrate at Dungarvan, and at a time when no reply could be given had made charges which might have been made a year and a half ago. The case might have been brought before the ordinary legal tribunals by the hon. Member or any of his friends. They had not done so; and therefore the House might assume that it was not proper to rake up the occurrence now. From his own personal knowledge, he could state that, though some hisses were heard when the 12th Lancers passed in the late procession, there was no foundation for the statement that execrations were heaped upon the men of that gallant regiment during the recent visit of the Prince and Princess of Wales to Dublin. With regard to the taste of the hon. Member in mentioning this circumstance as he had done, he would say nothing. It is deeply to be regretted that necessity so often compels the Executive to call out the military in aid of the civil power, at the time of elections in Ireland. All Governments had been compelled to take this course; and, so long as the present tendency to riot existed, troops would be required, the use of which it was quite a mistake to suppose was unconstitutional. Soldiers are not called out except on the advice of the magistrates for the preservation of the peace; and he would like to see the Government that could venture to refuse to listen to such advice. He objected to any interference with the Government in Ireland in reference to the employment of military on these occasions. No candid man could believe that, unless this protection were afforded, loss of life would take place. The hon. Gentleman, in trying to persuade the House that any influence was brought to bear on the voters in this way, was acting entirely at variance with facts. The only way to get rid of the presence of military at elections was for the people of Ireland to discontinue their tendency to riot. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. VANCE  thought that the subject had been sufficiently discussed.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  then moved that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. MONSELL  appealed to the noble Earl the Secretary for Ireland to allow the debate to be adjourned, as it was at the instance of the hon. Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance) that the question had been forced on at that late hour.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that if hon. Members were determined to persist in this course it would be useless to enter into a contest. If the hon. Baronet (Sir Patrick O'Brien) would withdraw his Motion for the adjournment of the House, he would consent to the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, very great objection was felt by many people to the constitution of the boards which were intrusted with the management of lunatic asylums. They were not responsible either
 161
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Why the Second Report of the Ritual Commission, which was laid upon the Table of this House on the 30th April, by command of Her Majesty, has not yet been distributed among Members, and how soon it will be in their hands?
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he had listened with pleasure—he thought he might say in common with the House at large—to the speech of his hon. Friend (Sir Massey Lopes), which had dealt so fully with the facts and figures of the question as materially to smooth the way of speakers later in the debate. He would not attempt to deal with the very important question before the House in the off-hand and abstract manner in which it had been dealt with by the hon. Member who spoke last (Mr. M'Laren), nor would he enter into a contention with the hon. Member as to the distinction without difference between landowners and landholders; but would merely observe upon that point that, with regard to liability to the payment of rates, he had always understood that they were upon precisely the same footing. His hon. Friend who brought forward the Motion dwelt much upon those burdens that affected the land from which other species of property was exempt. Now, it was to one class of exempted property which he wished in the first place to refer—namely, mines other than coal mines, and he wished to point out the position which the Courts of Law
 148 149
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied that the markets had not yet been separated by the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill, as the Bill had not become an Act. When the occasion arose, he had no doubt it would be considered by the Privy Council. In the meanwhile, he must decline to answer a hypothetical Question.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he was of opinion that a considerable improvement had been effected in the system of audit by the Act of 1866, for which the country was mainly indebted to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, but that it was still in some respects deficient. The Audit Department ought to be an independent one, responsible to Parliament alone, and its duty should be to see that the money voted in the House of Commons was applied to the purposes for which it was voted. Therefore, the Audit Department should be supreme in respect of audit over all other Departments, and responsible only to Parliament. Within his own Department the Auditor General ought to be supreme and independent. The Select Committee recommended that the Assistant Auditor General should have the power of reporting separately to Parliament; but it would have been most undesirable to give effect to that recommendation. It was inconsistent with one of the main objects of the measure, which was to substitute individual responsibility for the divided responsibility of a Board. The proposal was a sort of compromise between two things, either of which alone might have been desirable; but of the two he preferred individual responsibility. The matter is very clearly stated in the Correspondence laid before Parliament last year. It said—
 "The main object of substituting for the Board of Audit a single chief with supreme authority in the Department, is to fix the whole responsibility of the due execution of all the duties upon one public officer. It is true the Bill emerged from the Select Committee with some important alterations. A power was given by it to the Assistant Controller and Auditor, to report jointly with the Auditor General. On what grounds this change was proposed by the Committee it was difficult to say, as they neither took evidence on the point, or made any allusion to it in their Report to the House. When the Bill came back in its amended form to the House,
 132
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any progress has been made in appointing of ancient monuments in India, and whether he is now able to lay the Correspondence on the subject upon the Table of the House?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was right that the House of Commons should be satisfied that the audit of the public accounts should be entirely independent; but had any case been made out against the independence of the Audit Department? The hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Hankey) had so fully and clearly answered the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) on that point, that he (Mr. Hankey) had relieved him from a great part of the duty which otherwise it would have been incumbent on him to perform. There seemed to be some confusion in the minds of the hon. Gentleman who made the Motion, and of the hon. and learned Baronet who seconded it, as to the functions of Controller and Auditor General. They had spoken of that officer as an accountant in one capacity and an auditor in another. Now, he did not understand in what sense the Controller and Auditor General was an accountant [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: As Controller General he is an accountant, but as Auditor he is not an accountant.] The hon. Member for Swansea said that the whole of the public money was paid into his account; no doubt the money was paid into the Exchequer acccount; but it should be remembered that the Controller and Auditor General had not the power of drawing money from that account. The Treasury had to make application to the Controller and Auditor General; and when he had satisfied himself of the legality of the demand, he gave credit to the Treasury for a certain amount. But when that was done it was the Treasury, and not the Controller and Auditor General, who were concerned with the issue of the money. When it was issued, then came in the function of the Controller and Auditor General as Auditor, to see that the money had been spent in accordance with the provisions of the Appropriation Act. It appeared to him that there was now a very proper and stringent system of check; and, as far as the Act had been tried, he must say it had worked well. He might remark that the present Government were not responsible for that Act, which was introduced by the late Government, and had received the sanction of the Committee on Public Accounts. The only fault, as far as he was aware, to be found with the Act, was that the alteration which it introduced
 129 130 131
 MR. ADDERLEY : I have, Sir, already stated to the House that the intention of Her Majesty's Government was not to assume the Protectorate of Basuto-land, but to enable the Natal Government at the re-
 115
 MR. ADDERLEY  replied that the Paper in question was compiled, as all other such Papers were, from Returns furnished by the Governors of the different Colonies. The Governor of British Columbia gave more details than were contained in the Returns from Adelaide and Capetown. In these two Returns no statement of Miss Coutts's endowment of £17,500 for each place had been made. The Colonial Office had, however, obtained information on the point from the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, and an amended Return would be laid on the table.
 MR. NEATE  said, that though the pro sent discussion was not likely to lead to any practical result immediately, the question was one to which it was light to draw the attention of the House and the public. There could be no doubt, in his opinion, that landed property did enjoy comparative exemption from taxation. He was not now speaking of local taxes, nor was he omitting, as was too often done, to draw the proper distinction between landed property and real property. Some persons spoke as if real property and lauded property were in all cases the same thing; but real property in towns was a thing of a totally different character from real property in land. The owners of houses in towns did not represent landed, but personal property. The capital value of land had risen enormously, in many instances, he admitted, by an application of the capital of the landlord; but while the income of land had risen perhaps 10 per cent, the capital value of the land had risen 30 or 40 per cent. Great attention had been challenged for the income tax. Now, he held that, in reality, the land enjoyed a considerable exemption from that tax. The farmer paid on an income measured at half the rent of his holding. Let them take the case of a fanner holding 300 acres and paying a rent of £450 a year. That man paid income tax on an income of £225 a year. Now, would anyone acquainted with land, tell him that a farmer holding 300 acres, and having, say, £3,000 to work his
 150
 MR. READ  said, he regretted to have to differ from so high an historical authority as the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren); but his reading of history was that, previous to the Reformation, it was the monasteries and other religious institutions, and not the land, which maintained the poor. The arguments with reference to the income tax applied with equal force to the moneyed interest and other holders of property as to the land. And he could not agree with the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) that the tenant-farmers were unduly exempted from the payment of income tax, because they were assessed on only half the amount of their rent. On the contrary, he was of opinion that they were assessed very fully and amply. The hon. Gentleman had argued that the stock-in-trade of farmers ought to be assessed if the stock-in-trade of other persons were to contribute to the rates; but on this point he begged to inform the hon. Gentleman that stock-in-trade in agriculture was supposed in the eye of the law to be assessed in order to produce the rent paid to the landlord. In addition to the two exemptions of real property already named—mines and woodlands—from rating, there was a third exemption. The owner of real property by overstocking his land with game so deteriorated the rent as to allow that land to escape its fair assessment and contribute its fair share to the maintenance of the poor. In America the assessment was not on the annual rent, but on the annual profit. The hon. Baronet (Sir Massey Lopes) had proved by statistics that the rates gradually and constantly increased. Several items of new local taxation had been introduced, and more were expected if turnpikes and education were to be paid out of the rates. The farmers were twitted with this—What a bother you make when you pay anything in the shape of rates ! Why, what a bother and fuss was made when an additional income tax of a 1 d d d 152 s
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he thought they were all indebted to the hon. Baronet the Member for Westbury (Sir Massey Lopes) for having brought this subject under their notice, and for the able speech in which he introduced it. In reference to one remark the hon. Member made, he (Mr. M'Laren) agreed with him, and at once said that, in his opinion, nothing could be more absurd than to argue that questions of this kind should not be discussed in that House. If that were so, they need not assemble there at all. He thought they were obliged to the hon. Baronet also for the temperate and able way in which he stated his case. He (Mr. M'Laren) had however to say that there was another side to the question, mid he wished to say a few words upon it lest it might be supposed there was nothing to state. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the Act of 43 Elizabeth as settling the Poor Law system; but he had not gone into all the questions affecting the land at the time, and their different relations and circumstances. If he had done so, it would have been quite obvious that the landlords had nothing to complain of. In the time of Queen Elizabeth there were no landowners; they were all landholders only. They held their lands from the Crown almost as leaseholders or tenants of the Crown. They received grants of their lands on condition that they performed certain duties to the Crown and the State. For example, they were to do all the fighting; they were to turn out with their retainers for the defence of the realm, there being then no standing army. They received the grants of their land on this further implied condition, that out of its produce they were to support the poor, who, they were told, on the highest authority, would never cease to exist in the land. Long afterwards, when the landholders had great power in both Houses of Parliament, they got a law passed—a most unrighteous law, he thought—by which they got rid of nil those burdens on the land, for a most inadequate consideration; and they afterwards agreed to pay, partly in lieu of them, a composition of 20 per cent on the rent of the land for ever, or 4 s 146 s s d 147
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will lay upon the Table Despatches from the Governors of the Cape or of Natal with respect to the affairs of Basuto-land?
 MR. CORRANCE,  in rising to second the Resolution of his hon. Friend, said, he was conscious of doing so under certain disadvantages in this respect—first, that when he entered the House that night he had no intention of entering upon that debate and second, that he had his doubts as to the expediency of discussing it in so general a form as that. But when he heard the able statement of his hon. Friend, not only did those doubts cease, but he felt that there was no danger that the cause would suffer from any shortcomings on his part. But, if that was a personal disadvantage, it might not be so considered by the House; for it was at least a guarantee for this—he should not go into statistics, and his remarks would be brief. Now, he had said that he agreed with the hon. Member as to the fact, and he thought, also, that by the Lords' Committee of 1846 these were fully borne out. Those facts rested upon grounds absolutely irrefragable, as he thought. Nevertheless, that inquiry laid over a wide ground and took in a great range of both general and local taxation, each one of which, in detail, would require close investigation and patient proof. It included the incidence of income tax, land tax, tithes, and of local rates, and no less so the actual economic effect of such burdens upon the industry itself—and the effect of such deduction from the gross produce of such an industry of any reproductive class. Those perhaps were scarcely suspected, for use and custom reconciled them to much. They knew that they paid income tax upon the gross sum, without any deduction for agency or collection, or incidental expenses, which amounted to about 25 per cent. It reached the last farthing they possessed. Of the land tax they knew that it fell upon agriculture in a larger proportion than aught else; that it could only be re-adjusted within parochial limits, and that under the
 144 "It must be acknowledged that in the actual state of the poor rate, a usual larger amount falls upon the produce of the farmer, than on other classes in proportion to their respective profits. The farmers will, therefore, have less motive to devote his capital to land than to some other trade, unless the price of his produce is raised." "Any tax, whether in the shape of land tax, or rate on producd when obtained, will increase the cost of produce, and will, unless under direct competition with other untaxed produce, raise its price to the consumer; but if, under any circumstances, the price of produce did not so rise as to compensate the cultivator for the tax, he would naturally quit a trade where his profits were reduced below the general level."
 MR. CORRANCE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether the exemption contemplated in favour of Spanish or Portuguese Cattle landed at Liverpool or Southampton will extend to their admission into the Islington Market subsequently to the separation of the Markets by the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  replied that he was informed by the Secretary of the Commission that the reason of the delay was, that, attached to the Report, there was a largo blue book of about 300 pages. He believed, however, that it would be delivered to Members to-morrow.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that when he held Office at the Poor Law Board, his attention was called to the subject of exemptions from rates, and but for the pressure of business on the Department it was hoped last winter that something might have been done to remedy some of the anomalies which still existed. The subject was a great and growing one, which would doubtless form the subject of future debates in this House. At the same tune he thought there were certain objections to the form of the Motion which had been made, and he thought that the hon. Gentleman who had introduced it would do well to rest satisfied with the cordiality and unanimity of opinion which it had called forth from the Gentlemen on both sides of the House. He was glad to find that there was such general recognition of the burdens borne by the rateable property of the country, and that there was at the same time a general unwillingness to diminish local control and management of local concerns. That was a matter of material importance, and he was glad that hon. Gentlemen were unwilling to sacrifice it for the theoretical advantages of a system of national rating. That was a state of things from which they were, he trusted, far removed, and it would he hoped be long before they looked for a remedy in that direction. The Union Chargeability Act was a step in that direction it was
 159 160
 MR. CHILDERS  wished to say a few words on a question which had been brought forward so much to the public advantage by the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn). Many interesting questions had been raised in the debate, such as the audit of Indian expenditure and other matters, which would doubtless be again brought forward; but he would confine himself to two—namely, the importance of securing in the Executive Government a proper system of control over the public expenditure, and, in the Audit Department, a proper system of audit for the information of the House; and these two things had been in some respects a little confused. On the first he deprecated the language of his hon. Friend the Member for Dundalk, who said the House should be jealous of
 133 134
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will place upon the Table of the House a Statement of the several Contracts entered into and still unfinished for work connected with or for the purposes of the proposed Fortifications for the defence of the Dockyards and Naval Arsenals, & c., of the United Kingdom and the Colonies, showing the date of each Contract; the nature of the work to be executed or material to be provided; the total amount to be paid; the extent of work executed or
 113
 MR. O'BEIRNE  begged to say that he was not in any way connected with any of the contracting firms. He would move for the Return as suggested by the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. FLOYER  said, one of the characteristics of this debate was, that the question had been discussed without any party feeling, and therefore it had received much fairer and more impartial consideration than many other subjects of late. In the speech of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), which was marked by the hon. Gentleman's usual ability, were some remarks with which he (Mr, Floyer) could not agree. He could not concur in the inference drawn by the hon. Member from the increased value of the land in certain districts. There might be some fortunate proprietors whose land had increased much in value in consequence of the improved condition of the country at large; but if an inquiry were instituted into the outlay
 155 156 socage 157
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the hon. Baronet who had introduced the Motion (Sir Massey Lopes) had rendered a real service to the House and the country, for no one who had considered the subject could doubt that it required a much more systematic and deliberate consideration than it had yet received, not only on account of its great importance and the amount of taxation it involved, but because its importance was constantly increasing. In the natural progress of things more and more duties were continually being imposed on the Government, which duties would be almost always best performed by the localities, and at the same time, as the taxation of localities must constantly increase in order to meet increasing expenses, if there
 153 154
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was by no means satisfied with the explanation or the interpretation put upon the Act of 1866 by his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers). What he desired was to secure that, as far as possible, the audit of public accounts should be wholly independent of the influence of the Executive, and that was what was recommended by the Committee on Public Accounts, as an audit in connection with the Treasury gave the Executive a very obvious power of control. He had no wish to interfere with the free action of the Executive; all he wanted was to secure a complete Report to Parliament of how the money voted was expended. He should therefore feel it is duly to persist in his Motion.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he could not resist the appeal which had been made to him by his right hon. Friend.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he rose to move the Resolution of which he had given Notice. The subject was one of great importance, and well deserved the attention of the House. Unless there were some means of controlling the public expenditure, it would be very easy for the Government to ask a larger sum for a popular purpose than was required, and to apply the surplus to a less popular branch of the service. Accordingly, at the end of each Session the Appropriation Act was passed, and an examination of the accounts was, of course, necessary to see that the requirements of the House had been complied with. Up to a recent period the audit had been conducted by and on behalf of the Treasury; but in 1856 the Committee of Public Moneys was appointed, and various irregularities were brought to light, which induced the Committee to recommend that the system of audit should be altered, and that it should be transferred from the control of the Treasury to that of the House. In 1866 an Act of Parliament was passed altering the system, and expressly laying down the principle that the audit of public accounts should be made on behalf of the House of Commons. It was perfectly clear that the relative positions of the Audit Department and of the Treasury were thereby altered. The Treasury now stood in the same relation to the House of Commons as the Accounting Department before did to the Treasury, and the Audit Department now stood in the same relation to the House of Commons as it formerly did to the Treasury. The House of Commons found the money, and
 117 118 119 "An audit administration should be complete and independent. The whole accounts of the country should be placed under its control, and it ought to be responsible directly to that House."—[3  Hansard
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, If the Report of the Royal Commission on Railways has received the consideration of Her Majesty's Government; and whether they are prepared to introduce legislative measures founded thereon?
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY , while admitting that the Audit Department was open to improvement, contended that it was far superior to the arrangements which existed prior to 1856. Any one taking the trouble to examine the accounts presented by that Department could inform himself extremely well of the mode in which the public money voted by the House had been expended. His hon. Friend (Mr. Dillwyn) had urged that the audit should not rest with any Department which was concerned in the expenditure, and the case of a steward appointing his own auditor had been mentioned. This, however, was not the principle on which the Audit Board was established. The Treasury was responsible to the country, and should alone possess the power of controlling the expenditure of the public money. To take away the power of controlling the expenditure from the Treasury, and place it in the Audit Department, would be to uproot every principle which obtained in this country with regard to the expenditure of public money. The Treasury was necessarily the spending Department, and all that Parliament could do was to ascertain that the money voted had been expended in the manner directed by the Appropriation Act. His hon. Friend had argued that the Auditor General ought to be independent; but this was already the case; for, though appointed by the Government of the day, he became, when once appointed, independent both of the Government and of Parliament, As to
 123
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that, having read with some attention the evidence taken before the Public Moneys Committee, he felt inclined to concur in the views of the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) and the hon. Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) rather than those of the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Hankey). Mr. Romilly, in his evidence before that Committee, said—
 "If a subordinate officer were placed at the Treasury for the purpose of audit, it would be a system that could hardly command confidence, and certainly would not be entitled to it. There is a very great difficulty in a Board checking the great public Departments. … In the case of the army and navy accounts there is an appeal to the superior authority of the Treasury, and the Treasury themselves have the power of deciding on disputed points. The check is one over which the Treasury have full control. … The check would be very different if it were to be exercised not by, or on behalf of, the Treasury, but over them. There is always a risk in
 124
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he will lay upon the Table of the House the draft of the Charter Her Majesty's Government propose to grant to the Roman Catholic University of Ireland?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER , in seconding the Motion, said, he had always been of opinion that the Act of 1866 was a mistake, and had been founded on wrong principles. One great objection to it was that it united together two functions that ought never to have been combined—namely, the office of Controller General of the Exchequer with that of Auditor General. The Controller General was the chief accountant of the Crown—all the public monies stood in his name; but no accountant ought to be an auditor. Take the case of any public company or great commercial establishment. What would be thought if the person to audit the accounts was the cashier of the company? Would a gentleman allow his accounts to be audited by the steward who received his
 120 121 122
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, the best way to answer the Question of the hon. Gentleman is by reminding him and the House that originally the total Estimate for these works amounted in round numbers to £7,500,000. Of that amount up to the end of March last year rather more than £4,500,000 had been expended. I have no accurate statement of the exact amount expended up to the present time, but I would say that it is upwards of £5,000,000. I believe the hon. Gentleman himself will be able to calculate, he himself being, I apprehend, connected with one of the contracting firms, the amount which will be expended under contract. He is probably aware that of the whole sum of £7,500,000, all will be expended under contract with two exceptions—one, the amount paid for purchase of land; the other, about £500,000, which had to be expended, partly because of the difficulty in obtaining a supply of labour, and partly from the fact of the failure of one of the contractors. If the hon. Gentleman is desirous of receiving information on all those details, he should move for an unopposed Return, the Government would then give ns many particulars as could properly be furnished.
 SIR MASSEY LOPES  said, it was with no little diffidence that he rose to move the Resolution that stood in his name. The subject to which it referred created no inconsiderable interest at the present time. The principle which it involved was grave and important; and should it be necessary for him to make any apology to the House for introducing so difficult a question, his excuse must be that for many years he had interested himself in the administration of local burdens; that he had always felt strongly the injustice of the present mode of assessing them; and in the western counties, in which he resided, this subject had been very ably and very anxiously discussed. He advocated this proposal on the broad principles of right and justice. He was neither animated by any party or political spirit. He was happy to think that this question was quite remote from the arena of party politics. Neither was he influenced by class interests, for no man in that House felt more than he did that the prosperity of the community at large depended on that of every class; and he would be the last man to say or do anything which should be detrimental to any class whatever. The Resolution which
 137 de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis d 138 s d 139 140 141 142 "That the relief of the poor is a national object, towards which every description of property ought justly to be called upon to contribute, and that the Act of 43 Elizabeth contemplated such contribution according to the ability of every inhabitant." "With regard to the general policy of imposing a local rate exclusively on one class of property, I am quite prepared to admit that unless it can be shown that there is some special reason in favour of a local tax, limited to real property, it is more fair and equitable to defray the expenditure out of a national tax, which should comprehend all species of property. The objections to a local tax upon real property exclusively have been so manifest upon the ground of the partiality of the incidence of the tax, that attempts have been made to devise local taxes which should be free from that defect." 143
 SIR MASSEY LOPES  said, in reply, that his object in introducing this subject was not to gain a barren victory, but to promote a discussion which might bear fruit hereafter, and he thought there was every probability that this expectation would be realized. With regard to the Act of Elizabeth, he reminded the House that it only referred to the poor rate, not to the county rate, police rate, and highway rate; and he thought that if new charges, unknown to the framers of the Act of Elizabeth, were now levied without its sanction, new forms of productive property, which had sprung into existence since that time ought to bear their share of these new burdens. He could not agree with what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate)—namely, that land enjoyed a considerable exemption from the income tax, because the farmer paid only one-half the amount of his rent. On the contrary, he was of opinion that this tax fell more heavily on land than on personal property. The owner of a farm or house was assessed on his gross rental. No allowance was made for repairs, insurance, agency, or arrears, and therefore he invariably paid a larger percentage to the income tax than his net receipts. The assessment on the occupier was an arbitrary one, whether he made any profits or not; whereas, on the contrary, incomes from trades and professions were were ascertained by the voluntary declaration of the recipients—they were allowed to make their own returns. Thanking both sides of the House for the manner in which this subject had been treated, with an entire absence of party feeling, he begged to withdraw the Motion.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that the Governor General in Council had adopted a system, not only for the preservation of these monuments, but also for taking casts and photographs and forwarding them to this country. During the present year four parties had been sent out under the direction of officers of the Public Works Department who would select the monuments to be copied.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that the Board of Trade had given most serious and careful attention to the Report
 116
 VISCOUNT ROYSTON (CONTROLLER of the HOUSEHOLD) , brought up the following gracious Answer to the Address of the House to Her Majesty on the subject of the Irish Church:—
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, when this question was last discussed in 1864 they witnessed the anomaly of Mr. Cobden supporting the metric system as a means of facilitating the growing intercourse between nations, created by the adoption of Free Trade, while the Free Trade Ministers—the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) and the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson)—voted against it. The Government, however, were defeated by a large majority, and then engaged to take charge of the Bill. But what a Bill it had proved to be! According to the Report of the Warden of the Standards one of the Inspectors of weights
 200 "The establishment of railways and electric telegraphs, those great instruments of progress and civilization, has, so to say, changed the face of the world. Communications are now so easy and so rapid that the different countries are now in a condition in which they were not before, of being rather provinces of the same empire. We cannot now limit ourselves to attempting some simplification: we are led by the force of circumstances to extended reforms. This is the only mode for facilitating social transactions and commercial operations in the entire world." 201 "The great advantages of the metrical system are having convenient units, and the enormous advantage also of having decimal subdivision."
 MR. WINTER BOTHAM  said, that to suffer in silence had never been esteemed one of the virtues of the Protestant Dissenters; and he trusted that the House would listen to one of that body who had suffered keenly from the state of things which the present Bill was brought forward to remedy. The House should remember, in the first place, that Dissent was the creation of Parliament. The disabilities and exclusions under which Dissenters had laboured, more or less, for 200 years were all imposed as parts of one policy. The Preamble of the Act of Uniformity set forth that the persons at whom it was directed "wilfully and schismatically refused to come to their parish chinch." Was that the light in which Parliament was now to regard Protestant Dissenters?
 226 227 228 Plea for the Liberty of Unlicenced Printing "Where there is much desire to learn, there of necessity will be much arguing, much writing, many opinions; for opinion in good men is but knowledge in the making. …. What some lament of, we rather should rejoice at, should rather praise this pious forwardness among men, to reassume the ill-deputed care of their religion into their own hands again. A little generous prudence, a little forbearance of one another, and some grain of charity might win all these diligencies to join and unite into one general and brotherly search after truth, could we but forego this prelatical tradition of crowding free consciences and Christian liberties into canons and precepts of men."
 MR. GLADSTONE : I rise, Sir, to make the Motion which stands on the Notice Paper in my name, and which, I believe, I could have made, as a matter of form, on the night on which the Resolutions were reported, if it had not been that I waited for the answer to the Address to the Crown—namely, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to prevent, for a limited time, new appointments in the Church of Ireland, and to restrain, for the same period, in certain respects, the proceedings of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for Ireland.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE said :  * 187 rationale 188 189 are 190 "Pray pardon me for calling your attention to this Bill of Messrs. Ewart and Co., in the hope that you will oppose it—at all events by vote, and perhaps by word. It is most uncalled for and violent, and is supported, I believe, mainly by the chemists among men of science, whose reading and experimental practice bring them frequently into contact with the French weights and measures, and such engineers as have foreign contracts to execute. As respects a reference of our fundamental units to a natural standard, our national system is anything but the haphazard, indefensible thing it is usually represented to be. The polar axis of the earth is a much better natural unit than the quadrant of a meridian through Paris, and, dividing this into 500,000,000 inches, our actual imperial foot conies within a 1,000th part of twelve such inches, or a geometrical foot. I have by me two foot-rules—one by a good optician, the other purchased at a good shop, and none the worse for wear, which differ from each other by more than that quantity. Taking for the definition of our ounce the weight in air of 1966–1,000th part of such a geometrical cubic foot of distilled water at 62° Fahrenheit (our standard temperature), according to the rate declared in the Act 5  Geo. in vacuo in vacuo. 191 "With regard to the metrical system, I should distinguish between two distinct things. Decimilisation and metricalisation are two things which are often confounded; persons imagine that they must go together, which is not the case. Any system may be made decimal. I am as much for decimal division as any person can be; I believe that the decimal division of units might be introduced very easily; and I believe that it would coexist perfectly well with the binary division, which I am satisfied must always be used by the common people, so far as halves and quarters are concerned. The halves and quarters are easily converted into decimal fractions. The decimal system, therefore, if fully established throughout the country, might go on and thrive, consistently with the habit of dividing all units into halves and quarters in common life. "(2332.) Then you draw a distinction between the decimal system and the metrical system?—The metrical system is the decimal system with the units of the French system superadded. I object to the introduction of the French units into this country. I object to it upon a balance of convenience and inconvenience. I admit that the change might be convenient to our foreign commerce; but I believe that it would create such an immense amount of confusion throughout the country that the inconvenience would far more than counterbalance the advantage we should derive in our foreign commercial relations." "What I mean is, that there would be no advantage commensurate with the disadvantage
 192 "In the first place, change is in itself a disadvantage, and a great change is a great disadvantage. I must first have it distinctly proved to me that there are advantages which would more than counterbalance the disadvantages I foresee in other respects. I take an objection to the metre. It arose from a mere fanciful connection with the quarter of the meridian, which I think of no practical importance to any man alive. You might just as well try to subdivide the distance I from the earth to the moon. The metre is, of course, too long to be the common measure; it is a little longer than a yard. In decimal division the next thing would be the decimetre, which would be too short to take the place of our foot. The same thing applies very much to the other measures. I not only have a general objection to their size as compared with ours, but I think it would be necessary that a very strong case should be made out in their favour before any such change is effected." "(2408.) The metre, you chink, is fanciful?—It was obtained in a fanciful way. It was the ten millionth part of the quarter of the meridian." "(2109.) Why do you consider that fanciful?—Because it was of no use to anybody, and among the reasons why it was adopted were such as this; that it would be a very pleasant thing for a small proprietor to say, 'I am lord of exactly such a fraction of the whole surface of the earth.' Now, I do not suppose that any little proprietor ever troubled his head with the fraction he held since the time when Adam began to delve the land." 193 "(Q. 1950.)  Chairman. "(Q. 1964)  Chairman "(Q. 1965.) Do you not think that these transactions must increase?—I suppose they must; but whether they increase faster than our domestic transactions I am not in a position to state. I think our domestic trade is far more active than it used to be. "(Q. 1966.) Would our domestic trade he seriously inconvenienced by the introduction of the decimal system?—By the act of introducing it, it would. I am not remarking on the merits of the decimal system, but the trouble of the change would be inconceivably greater. "(Q. 1967.) But if the change could be made  per saltum "(Q. 1968.) Then do you think that the present system is a perfect system?—If I had a new nation to create, with a new system of weights and measures, I would give them the binary scale throughout. That, I conceive, would be nearest perfection; the binary scale, with means to enable us to use decimal multiples or submultiples." 194 "The subdivision that has been adopted by the consent of mankind, and is undoubtedly the most convenient for the purpose." "As a practical test, the inch is divided in almost every scale into eighths and tenths; but there are very few working men who ever use the tenth. They use the half, the quarter, the eighth, and even go do down to the sixteenth, and they call the next after that the half of the sixteenth." "Not think it of the least consequence that there should be a corresponding and uniform system between different countries." "Do you not think it was an act of indiscretion on the part of the French Legislature to introduce Greek and Latin terms?" "People utterly ignorant of Greek and Latin must have found great difficulty in understanding the terms used? " "Is there not this objection also to the use of Greek and Latin terms, that all nations appear, for the sake of brevity, to have adopted very short terms for their weights and measures? In England, for instance, we adopt the ounce, pound, ell. yard, and so on, almost all of the words being monosyllables; then in France, the  toise aune 195 "If you have two difficulties to encounter, one to introduce a new system, and another to learn a new language, the difficulty of introducing it" (the system) "is immensely increased." Notes for the Committee on Weights and Measures "I once recommended the substitution of a measure of 2,000 yards instead of the mile of 1,760 yards; not only because it is decimal, but also because it approaches very near to one minute of a degree on the earth's surface, because it corresponds to the nautical mile, and because the Government possess the power (through the turnpike roads and the railways) of exhibiting the material symbols of the measure. But the inconvenience arising from the circumstance that 2,000 yards cannot be measured by the ordinary land chain of twenty-two yards would be so great, that I now doubt the expediency of such a course. I also once recommended the substitution of a weight of 100 lbs. instead of 112 lbs.; and I think that, in certain cases (as at the Custom House, where the duty on large weights of tea, &c, is charged not by the cwt. but by the lb.) it might be convenient. But, viewing the small connection which really exists between the use of the cwt. and the use of the lb., I now doubt the expediency of that substitution." 196
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, I think it necessary, Sir, to give you notice that I object to the right hon. Gentleman's proceeding at this hour (7 minutes to 6 o'clock) with a Motion for the introduction of a Bill in pursuance of the reply of Her Majesty to an Address from this House;
 233
 MR. COLERIDGE : Mr. Speaker—Sir, I rise to invite the House to assent to the second reading of the Bill now before us. And in so doing I regret that I should be obliged to trouble the House with a single observation. For this is really no more than a consolidation of two Bills with which the House is already familiar—one which has hitherto been associated with the name of the right hon. Gentleman the; Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie); the other which has been introduced in former years by the hon. Gentleman the Chairman of Committees (Mr. Dodson), by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for London (Mr. Goschen), by my hon. Friend the Member for Elgin (Mr. Grant Duff), and by myself. These Bills have been so repeatedly before us—they have been in principle, and in more than principle, so often affirmed by large and even
 210 211 "Tuque tuis armis, nos te, poteremur, Achille." 212 213 214 "We approach your Grace as the chief guardian in Parliament of the religious interests of this realm." "At the present moment there is a Bill before the House of Commons which, if it should become law, would completely destroy the existing connection of the University and the Colleges with the Church." "For as the tutors are selected from among the fellows of Colleges, we are convinced that the admission to Fellowships of persons not necessarily Christians will imperil the continuance of religious education in Oxford and tend to the establishment of a purely secular system. In thus appealing to your Grace, we plead the cause of the Christian parents of our English youth throughout the land, whatever be their religious profession. We are confident they will feel with us that if the proposed changes are effected, not only will unity of faith and worship be inevitably destroyed in the University and the Colleges, but, with the overthrow of a definite creed and of a common form of prayer, the very basis of a Christian education will disappear from amongst us. While the intellect, at a most critical period of life and in an age of great and increasing excitement, will be highly stimulated, the conscience will be injured by the exhibition, in the very home of education, either of a bitter conflict on first principles or of a lax and careless indifferentism. We cannot too strongly represent to your Grace that this is no common contest, no party question. It is not even a question between the Church and Dissent. The battle is for Christian Faith and Christian morals. It is for our very life. On behalf of our Church and our country, on behalf of the souls of the youth of this hitherto Christian nation, we solemnly, as in the presence of Almighty God, implore your Grace, and our Christian brethren everywhere, to strive with us to maintain in our University and our Colleges the principle of Christian education which has been handed down to us through so many Christian centuries, and which, if once destroyed, it will be impossible to restore." 215 "Per damna per cœdes ab ipso Ducit opes animumque ferro." 216 mutatis mutandis 217 "Undermines the whole principle of good, darkens the light which is to direct our steps, and corrupts the conscience, which is the guide of life." religion 218 219 peculium 220 King Arthur "The old order changeth, yielding place to new, And God fulfils Himself in many ways, Lest one good custom should corrupt the world."
 MR. SPEAKER : According to the rule of the House, if the hon. Member objects to the Motion being brought on at this hour it cannot be proceeded with.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he hoped he would be allowed to reply briefly to the remarks addressed to him personally by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, (Mr. Coleridge). His hon. and learned Friend had taken exception to some observations made by him not there but elsewhere. Now he had never uttered a word on that subject cither there or elsewhere which he would shrink from acknowledging. His hon. and learned Friend, however, had not quite accurately quoted his words. What he had stated at a public meeting at Buckingham was that the measure of which his hon. and learned Friend was a sponsor was one of a series of measures that were directly aimed against the Christianity of the nation. To those words he entirely adhered, and he was prepared to justify them. The Preamble of the Bill declared that it was expedient that the benefits of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge should be rendered "freely accessible to the nation." Now, would his hon. and learned Friend say that those great institutions never were accessible to the nation. Were they not open in and intended for the nation at the time of their foundation? When did they tease to be accessible to the nation and appropriate to their original purpose? Would it be pie-
 231 curriculum. 232
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he must oppose the Bill. Decimal coins and decimal weights and measures were so closely connected that it was unfair to test one apart from the other; because they worked so much more easily and naturally together. Notwithstanding their advantages, his conviction was that neither change would be for the general advantage of the great interests of the country. He admitted the
 202 203 grammes
 MR. GRAVES : Sir, when my hon. Friend invited me to support the principle of the Bill which he has just submitted to the House, I felt some hesitation in acceding to his request, from the fact, that though long convinced of the necessity of a uniform system of weights and measures, I had not given that serious consideration to the precise character of the change which its importance deserved; it was, however, a question which, as representing a large commercial community, I could not shirk, and with the full consciousness of the responsibility attaching to such representation, I entered upon the consideration of the proposal, and I am bound to say the more I examined into it, the more was I satisfied of the inconvenience attending our intricate systems, and the greater appeared to be the necessity for adopting in lieu of them the metric and decimal, which are simplicity itself, and have the advantage of being extensively used in many of the commercial nations of the world. There is, no doubt, always a great difficulty in altering a system which has become interwoven with the daily and hourly avocations of a people, and the older the country the stronger the difficulty. England has always shown herself averse to change; but, on the other hand, when once the public mind has become impressed with the necessity for change, it is remarkable with what facility it is accomplished. Let me recall the House to what took place in Ireland not many years since, when a change was made in the currency; it was urged then, as I dare say it will be
 180 181 "The decimal scale, however, appears to us to be by far the most convenient for all transactions which become the subject of written accounts, and for all transactions of whatever kind in which great numbers of weights and measures are combined by addition or multiplication." "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the practicability of adopting a simple and uniform system of Weights and Measures, with a view not only to the benefit of our internal Trade, but to facilitate our Trade and Intercourse with Foreign Countries." "First: That the decimal system, in accordance with the system of numeration universally employed, is best adapted to express multiples and sub-multiples of weights, measures, and coins. "Secondly: That the metric decimal system is best adapted for that purpose in consequence of the scientific principles on which it is founded, the homogeneity which exists in the relation of all its parts, and the simplicity and facility of its application, in science, art, industry, and commerce. "Thirdly: That the instruments of precision and the method employed to obtain copies of prototype weights and measures have attained such a perfection that the exactitude of these copies answers to the wants of industry and commerce, and also to the exigencies of science in its present state. "Fourthly: That as every economy of labour, whether material or intellectual, is equivalent to a real increase of wealth, the adoption of the metric system, which ranges itself in the same order of ideas as machines and tools, railways and telegraphs, and tables of logarithms, recommends itself particularly in an economic point of view." "1. To prescribe the study of the metric system in all the schools, and to exact the knowledge of it in all public competition. "2. To introduce its exclusive use in scientific publications, in public statistics, in the Post-
 182 "The Commission hopes that the competent authorities of different nations may give heed to the wishes of science and the manifestation of public opinion." 183 "It is expedient to adopt the French metric system, with attendant subdivisions and denominations, for weights and measures in the three Scandinavian countries." 184 "(1778.) How much do you think the boys' education would be shortened by the adoption of the decimal system?—Two years at least. "(1779.) And would the learning of the decimal system be more agreeable?—Yes, I think so, and more complete." 185 186
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of those who differed from him on this question in language which he did not expect to hear from him and which seldom fell from his lips. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Coleridge) was entirely mistaken in his view of the objections entertained to the Bill. Nobody had ever thought of objecting to the fullest educational freedom with regard to the Universities, and indeed the freedom of which his hon. and learned Friend spoke so highly was already secured to everyone throughout the length and breadth of the land. The hon. and learned Gentleman had very properly divided his subject into two parts, the one relating to the Universities and the other to the Colleges. Though the hon. Gentleman now maintained that there was no distinction between the Universities and the Colleges, he spoke differently some time ago. With regard to the Universities, his hon. and learned Friend said he believed the Bill would establish a system of complete freedom, while, with regard to the Colleges, he stated that he only proposed to do justice to them by removing the restraints by which their action was at present fettered. Let them see how the matter stood. In both Universities the utmost freedom of admission was given to Dissenters, and by the University Acts powers were given or intended to be given to them to receive the benefits of a University education by the opening of private halls or hostels. The only distinction between Oxford and Cambridge—a distinction which he admitted
 221 222 223 224 225
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was glad to hear from the Government that they would support the second reading of the Bill; at the same time, he was not quite sure that it was a Parliamentary course to read a Bill a second time merely for the purpose of sanctioning the principle on the understanding that the measure was to go no further. He wished to correct a misapprehension of his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith), who had represented him as being an opponent of the metric system. That was erroneous. He had been always of opinion that of all systems of weights and measures now existing in the world the metric system of France was the most complete and most useful in all dealings between men and between nations. This Bill was founded on two principles. The first was that this country having already sanctioned the use of the metric system by Act of Parliament, the Government should be authorized to construct metric standards so that people might have an opportunity of verifying the metric measures in use, and having their accuracy guaranteed by the Government stamp. The second principle was that after a certain number of years our present measures should be abolished and those of the metric system substituted. With regard to the first part of the Bill he was prepared to accede to it. As they had passed a measure the Preamble of which stated that it was expedient to legalize the metric system of weights and measures, the natural consequence was that they should pass another to enable that system to be brought into operation; and at a future time it might be necessary to compel its adoption. If, however, they were to go too far at first
 209
 MR. MORRISON  said, he opposed the Bill on different grounds. He concurred in the arguments for a decimal and uniform system, and particularly one that was in-
 204
 MR. EWART  said, that there was something so fair in the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade that he would willingly accept it.
 MR. EWART , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, he would shortly state the progress of the system. It was well known that it arose in France towards the close of the great Revolution, and was the production of some of the most scientific minds of that period in France. It encountered great opposition; and the practical philosophers sent on a mission to measure a quadrant of the meridian were often in danger from the partizans of the Revolution. The first Napoleon, who was hostile to new ideas in general, was also hostile to the metric system. He therefore restored the old system of weights and measures concurrently with the new one, and created a spurious system which was denominated the  systême usuel. 177 "For measures of length, we have the ordinary inch, foot, and yard. In cloth measure, we have yards, nails, and ells. There are four different sorts of ells. For nautical purposes, we have fathoms, knots, leagues, and geographical miles, differing from the common mile. The fathom of a man-of-war is 6 feet; of a merchant vessel, 5½ feet; of a fishing smack, 5 feet. We have also the Scotch and Irish mile, and the Scotch and Irish acre. There are several sorts of acres in the United Kingdom, and there are a great variety of roods. We have in almost every trade measures of length specially used in those trades. For the measurement of horses we have the hand: shoemakers use sizes; and we are compelled to adopt guages where the French use the millimetre. The guages are entirely arbitrary. The
 178 "It is, then, our deliberate conviction that the simplest, the most efficacious, and the most convenient course which can be adopted will be to legalize the French decimal system of weights and measures, called the metric system; to put forth the whole strength of the Government in every practical direction, in order to familiarize the public with that system; and finally, after a convenient period, to render the use of it compulsory by penal enactments," 179
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he was sorry to find his hon. Friend, who held the position of Member for a scientific University where they had both been educated—a position in which he (Mr. Pollard-Urquhart) had assisted to place him—should sneer at a system of notation that was desired by so many eminent men, and by all the great merchants of the day. His hon. Friend had told a pitiful tale of what would happen to the small tradesmen, and the fruit women, if this Bill were passed. But did his hon. Friend never buy an apple from a woman in France or in Switzerland? The system prevailed in the retail trade of those countries, without any of the inconveniences which his hon. Friend had conjured up. It might be said that France was a highly centralized country, where the people were bound above all things to obey orders proceeding from head-quarters. But that was not true of such countries as Switzerland or Holland, where the people had as much social independence as in this country. Yet the system prevailed there, and the
 197 198
 MR. POWELL  said, he hoped that after a discussion of only two hours on such an important measure the debate would not be arrested. The object of the Bill was to un-denominationalize our system of education and to create a secular system. The petition against the Bill had been signed by 460 Heads and Fellows of Colleges, whereas that in its favour received the signatures of only 290,
 MR. GORST  said, he was sorry to disagree with his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope); but as he had come to the conclusion that the change would be of great advantage to the country he had no alternative but to support this Bill. He was in favour of decimalisation, even though they went no farther; but if they adopted decimalisation be thought it would be foolish if they did not go a step further and adopt metricalisation also. If we were the only nation in the world, and were about to consider the unit which ought to be adopted, he would accept the evidence of Sir John Herschel or Professor Airy as conclusive. But they were not choosing a unit. A. unit had already been chosen, and was in use throughout the other countries of Western Europe, and though it might not be scientifically the best, they would be foolish if they did not choose the unit that was already in use among so many nations. He thought the learned men to whom the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge had referred were asked about things which they did not know much about. If they had been asked what was the proper scientific unit he would have had the greatest respect for their opinions; but when it came to be a question of the beet mode of keeping accounts he would rather take the opinion of the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen) than that of all the professors in the world. The rest of his hon. Friend's argument only amounted to an abuse of strange new-fangled names of the system. But that had nothing to do with the system itself. The real question was whether the adoption of that system would be advantageous to the trade and commerce of the country. He believed it would be of great advantage to adopt the decimal system in their coinage; but if they adopted the metrical system—which was the decimal applied to a unit of measure—it would be still more advantageous. He was bound to say that one argument which was used in favour of this measure; did not commend itself to him—the argument that it would be of advantage to
 199 "I was engaged for, I believe, six months in the constant study and conversion of English weights, measures, and prices into French weights, measures, and prices, and so much did I feel the disadvantages of our system as compared with that of France, that to say I felt mystified and annoyed would not express my feelings at the time; I felt humiliated. The one is simple, symmetrical, logical, and consistent; the other dislocated, complicated, uncouth, and incoherent."
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, it seemed to him that this question might be regarded in two ways; first, with reference to this country alone; and, secondly, with regard to our communications with other countries. If this were merely a question regarding ourselves, he, for one, would hesitate very much before assenting to a change, even for the better, in an old country, with a vast population, accustomed to certain ways, a departure from which must necessarily involve very considerable confusion and annoyance. He admitted the inconvenience arising from the present system. Those who suffered the most from it, were those who were scarcely able to judge for themselves; and looking to this country alone, he certainly would be inclined to adopt the advice given by some hon. Members—namely, to endeavour to simplify and bring to one point the weights and measures which exist in this country, although he admitted there was very great difficulty in doing this. He himself attached no importance to the educational argument on the present system. He certainly was not one of those who would advocate unnecessary difficulty in learning for the sake of strengthening the mind. When everything had been made as easy as possible, there would assuredly be difficulty enough left to secure this object. There was quite enough labour
 205 206 "With reference to the commercial value of an authorized Exchequer standard on the metrical system it is important to consider the present state of the British law. Contracts made in terms of the metrical system are legal; the values of the metrical units being ascertained, not by reference to an Exchequer standard, but by a table of equivalents, that is of proportions of these units to the units of British measure, of which there are Exchequer standards. As affecting transactions with foreigners, this system leaves nothing to be desired. Contracts with foreigners are always on a large scale, and the verification of such contracts by means of the British standards is as easy as by means of the standards of the foreign country (metrical or otherwise). If it is required to verify a contract for 1,000 metres of French silk, it is only necessary for the merchant to refer to the table hung on the wall or desk of the counting-
 207 208
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had spoken with an ability and—though he could not himself agree with much that had fallen from him—on the whole, with a temper which showed that he would
 229 230
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that he did intend to proceed with the Land Writs Registration, the Court of Justiciary, and the Entail Amendment Bills. The County General Assessment Bill stood for second reading that evening; and he proposed that it should be read a second time, in order that it might be reprinted with Amendments, which had been suggested at various county meetings held in April last. Recommendations from several legal corporations upon the subject of the Court of Session Bill were now under the consideration of the Government; and he would state next week what course he would take with reference to that measure.
 VISCOUNT HAMILTON  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Upon whom rests the responsibility of the present impeded state of the thoroughfare in Park Lane; why the works have continued so long unfinished; and, how many men a-day are employed upon them, and when there is a probability of the works being completed?
 COLONEL HOGG  said, perhaps the noble Lord would allow him to answer the Questions. The Metropolitan Board of Works were at present engaged in altering the thoroughfare in Park Lane. Towards the end of last year their attention was drawn by the St. George's Vestry to the state of Park Lane. A Committee was formed, and, after various conferences between the First Commissioner of Works, the Committees of the Metropolitan Board, and the Vestry of St. George's, Hanover Square, it was agreed that a roadway should be formed of a minimum width of 40 feet, a footpath on the east side of a minimum width of 10 feet, and one on the west side of a uniform width of 8 feet. The deed was signed and deposited with the First Commissioner of Works on the 28th of January, 1868, and on the 31st the contractor was ordered to commence the work. He was allowed
 245
 MR. BENTINCK  regarded the discussion that had just occurred very much in the light of one for locking the stable door after the animal had been abstracted. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Alderman Lawrence), he thought the expenditure of money already contemplated for the new Courts was so large that it would not be fair towards the public to increase it to any great extent. The Committee appointed last year had come to the conclusion that no one of the competing architects had produced a design that was fit to be executed. In answer to an inquiry that he had made in the House on the subject, he had been informed that the question had been remitted to the Law Officers of the Crown to ascertain whether it was competent for the Committee to appoint two architects or only one. He wished now to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, before requiring them to agree to the present Vote, he would not explain to them the position in which that question now stood; whether the dead-lock that had existed still continued; and whether there was any prospect of their being called on to decide upon the design which
 291
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had not made any explanation in moving the Vote, because it was really almost a matter of form after the Act that was passed in 1865. That Act provided that certain sums of money, which should ultimately come out of the Suitors' Fund in the Court of Chancery, should be temporarily advanced from the Exchequer, and be re-paid from the interest of that Fund. Authority had also been given by the Act to purchase what was known as the Carey Street site; accordingly, the properties there were being gradually bought up; and each Session a Vote was proposed to enable the Treasury to advance the money, which was to be re-paid in the manner be had described. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Bentinck) had correctly stated what had previously occurred in the House on that subject. In answer to a question put to him, he had said that the Treasury having great doubts whether the decision of the Judges of the Designs could be held to be an award in any sense, the matter had been referred to the Attorney General. All the parties had received notice of that fact, and had an opportunity of representing their case to the Attorney General. He understood from the Attorney General that he had given his opinion on the point within the last day or two; but he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was not aware that it had yet reached the Treasury. As soon as they became acquainted with his hon. and learned Colleague's opinion, it would be the duty of the Government to consider what course should be taken in the matter, and then the House should be duly informed on the subject. In reference to the subject named by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Alderman Lawrence) before the House went into Committee, he begged to say that the importance of it was recognized by the Government, and it should receive every consideration.
 MR. PEASE  said, that in August last he put to the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works, without receiving any very satisfactory reply, the question, whether the Judges of Designs bad made a Report to the Treasury without waiting for the Report of the gentleman to whom a fee of 500 guineas had been paid for investigating the estimates? He afterwards heard that this gentleman's Report, with reference to the two designs most highly
 292
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  observed that there was in the Vote an item of £1,470 for the erection of a house for the Professor of Theology in King's College, Aberdeen, and for the rent of a house during the erection of the new house. He regretted the absence of the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy (Mr. Aytoun), and of the hon. Member for Buteshire (Mr. Lamont), who bad lately expressed so much hostility to the granting of money out of the public funds for theological purposes. He certainly thought they would have watched this Vote, and saved him from the necessity of asking for any explanation with regard to it. He wished the Government to inform him, whether it was the fact that the Committee were now asked to grant money out of the public purse for the support of a Professor of Theology in the University of Aberdeen, and for the building of a house for that professor, and for the rent of a house until the new house was built?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that a sum of £1,885 was granted last year for the same purpose, and the present Vote was required to complete the undertaking, to which the sanction of the House had already been given.
 MR. POWELL , remembering what had been said in the course of Wednesday's debate (upon the Oxford and Cambridge Universities Bill) about Jewish, Parsee, and Roman Catholic theology, said it would be interesting to ascertain what kind of theology was taught by the Professor at the University of Aberdeen. It was the
 293
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the Department which he represented had no thing to do with theology, but was concerned in maintaining in a proper and decent state the fabrics of the Scotch Universities.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) had asked what kind of theology was taught in the University of Aberdeen. He believed he could tell the hon. Gentleman. A distinguished foreigner described the Church of England during the last century thus:—It had an Arminian clergy, a Popish liturgy, and Calvinistic Articles. Well the Calvinistic Articles of the Church of England were the theology taught in the Universities of Scotland; but the other part of the description did not apply. Objection had been made by the hon. Baronet (Sir Column O'Loghlen) to spending public money for any theological purposes. In that he entirely agreed, and if the hon. Baronet chose to divide the Committee he would cordially vote with him.
 MR. BAXTER  said, when he attempted to put an end to Votes for Professors of Theology he received no support from either side of the House. The whole Conservative party strongly opposed him eight or ten years ago, when be objected to a further endowment of this Theological Professorship. If the hon. Gentleman (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) would choose to divide on this Vote he certainly should have the greatest pleasure in voting with him. He was glad that hon. Gentlemen had their attention directed to these Votes more than they had formerly. He hoped the day would come when no Grant would be made by the House for religious purposes, especially for the Theological Chairs.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  complained that this Vote had increased by £6,352, and he should like to know how it was occasioned. There was an item of £1,900 for a Jewel House for the Tower. Last year £3,200 had been granted for the same purpose; but he objected to the system of dividing Votes in this way, and obtaining the sanction of the House to a scheme in fragments, which would be sure to be rejected if it was proposed  in toto
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that encouraged by the observations of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell), as to the sum sought for the erection of a house for the Professor of Theology in the Aberdeen University, he should move the reduction of the Vote by a sum of £1,470.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CRAWFORD  asked what would be the consequence if this Vote were refused? Would the Professor's House then become one of the interesting ruins of Scotland?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford) had just suggested the real question which the Committee had to consider. In consequence of a Vote agreed to last year a contract had been taken for the house, and the work had made some progress. As, however, it had not been finished before the termination of the financial year, he was obliged to ask the Committee to re-Vote a certain amount of the money. If the Committee refused to do this it would be adopting a course for which, he believed, there was no precedent.
 MR. BENTINCK  opposed the Motion, on the ground that he was not friendly to disendowment either in England or Ireland, in Scotland or Wales.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he could not conceive himself voting for the endowment of any Professor of Theology; but in this case the house had been begun, and therefore he did not see how the Committee could refuse to agree to the Motion.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  asked the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Candlish) to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  drew attention to the inconveniences that arose from the way in which the different offices of one Department were scattered about London, instead of being concentrated in one quarter. He wanted some information recently about the Greenwich pensioners, and he went to Somerset House, but he was told by a gentleman there that he must go to the War Office; and he had never since been able to get the information here-
 295
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that this matter had engaged the earnest attention of the present Government, as well as that of their immediate predecessors. The late Government appointed a Treasury Commission to consider how all the great public Offices might best be concentrated in the neighbourhood of Whitehall and the Houses of Parliament; and since the present Government came into power its investigations had been continued. Three or four days ago his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury laid that Report on the table; and when it was printed—which it would be in a few days—the Committee would see that it had entered most fully and minutely into the question. The House of Commons had yet to consider whether it would sanction the recommendations of the Commission for the concentration, in the most convenient manner, of all the public Departments and their subordinate Offices. In answer to the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk), he stated that £1,500 of the increase arose from the necessity of providing increased accommodation for the Poor Law Board; two other items, formerly placed under another head, amounted to over,£1,000; and the charge for Westminster Bridge was this year increased by £2,500 to provide for its being re-painted and gilded. These sums would account for the excess referred to by the hon. Member.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  suggested to the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works, that Glasgow Cathedral should be thrown open to the public; the last year's fees for admission amounting only to £106 17 s d s
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  complained that the Vote had increased £1,500. He contended that the head of each Department should make his own expenditure on this account, and be responsible for it; if a Minister could not undertake the duty he was not fit for the place.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that past experience had shown that it was
 296
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  asked if steps had been taken, as proposed last year, to throw open Constitution Hill to the public, especially when the Queen was absent from town?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS ,in the absence of the Home Secretary, said he was not aware that any change had been made in that way.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  observed that there was a sum of £49.000 included in this Vote for St. James's Park, the Green Park, and Hyde Park. Now, there was a good deal of discussion last year about the Parks, and it was then stated that these Parks belonged exclusively to the Sovereign and not to the nation. If that were so, he should like to know why the nation was called upon to pay £49,000 for them. There were a great many items in the Vote referring to money expended on Hyde Park. Though they talked a good deal about liberty in this country, it was almost the only country, he believed, in which cabs were not allowed to enter the public Parks. If they went to Vienna or Paris they found that the inhabitants of those cities were permitted to drive in cabs in the Parks there. The noble Lord might say that the roads in Hyde Park were not wide enough to admit of cabs and carriages together travelling upon them. But the Champs Elysées was not so large as Hyde Park, and yet the road was made sufficiently wide to admit cabs as well as carriages to travel upon it. They were advancing, be would not say in democratic views, but in independent views and in common sense—as the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) had just said— both in that House and the country; and it was time that a person who had not a carriage should be allowed to go into Hyde Park in a cab. To prevent persons driving in the Park who could not ride in their own carriages was to restrict its use to some 10,000 persons. He had received a good many representations on this subject from
 297
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  reminded the House that on a former occasion a Vote of £9,000 was taken for Hampton Court, because it was said it was for the benefit of the public. It turned out, however, to be no such thing, but for the stables, vineries, and the Hampton stud, of which the people know little, and in which they had no interest. He did not find fault with the charge of £3,700 in this Vote for keeping in order the grounds of Hampton Court, because it was for the benefit of the public. He complained that the First Commissioner of Works did not do his duty so well on the West side of Hyde Park as he did on the East side. On the East he had planted a large quantity of beautiful flowers; but on the other side, near Kensington Gardens, the only place near London to remind one of Paradise, and a place where quiet thinking men and philosophers could walk, there were only a few common flowers, such as candytuft. [An hon. MEMBER: And pennyroyal.] Yes; and pennyroyal and Virginia stock. He thought it was too bad that in the part to which quiet pedestrians resorted there were few floral decorations.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  inquired, whether it was intended that the large sum—£4,800 odd — which appeared in the Vote for the maintenance of Batter-sea Park, should be continuous? They were told some years ago that that Park would eventually be self-supporting, and he wished to know whether there was any prospect, through the realization of sales of land in that neighbourhood, that the country would not be called upon to vote year after year the large sum that now appeared in the Estimates for the maintenance of Battersea Park.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  asked, why the receipt for grazing-rents in Hyde Park was not to be found in the Estimate, and why there were two charges for police in the Parks—one to the Ranger and the
 298
 MR. PEASE  would like to know whether there was any reason why the present temporary road from the North end of Exhibition Road into the Queen's Drive, could not be made a permanent road?
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, if the proprietors of the property outside the Roehampton Gate had the privilege of using the Gate, they ought to be asked to let the public use their road as an equivalent.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that although Hyde Park was Royal property, Her Majesty graciously permitted the public to use it, and hence the public paid for its maintenance and improvement. With reference to the questions put as to permission being given for cabs to use the parks, one reason why it might be thought impolitic to grant such permission would be that the owners of omnibuses and other vehicles would make the same demand; and if these were admitted the roads would be inconveniently crowded, and drivers might experience the blocks that were too common in the City. He did not doubt that if, in any particular instance, a strong case were made out in favour of such a course, cabs might be admitted. [Mr. LABOUCHERE: Omnibuses also?] Not omnibuses. At the time the traffic in St. James's Park was under consideration, when the convenient access between St. James's Palace and Buckingham Palace was thrown open to the public cabs, it was at the same time decided that it would not be advisable to extend the privilege further. Cabs were also permitted in Hyde Park in the road between Bayswater to Kensington. These facts were sufficient to show that there was no disposition to ignore the interests of the public; but be trusted that the Committee would hesitate before they sanctioned such general proposals as those which had been made by the hon. Member (Mr. Labouchere). The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) bad complained of the increase in the Estimates; but there were in the proposed expenditure of the year several items which would probably never appear again,
 299
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  wanted to know if the Estimates were to go on increasing from year to year; because, if so, where are we to stop? Since 1866 there had been an increase of £40,000; and last year, as now, the Committee were told that many of the items were exceptional, and would never occur again.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  remarked that there was always a tendency to increase in the sums required for the parks. Claims for additional public accommodation, and additional public enjoyment, were continually being made, and such claims could not be met without increased expenditure. The hon. Member, while complaining of the increase in the expenditure, had at the same time appealed to him for more attention to the flowers—a matter that would, of course, involve the outlay of more money. The mere fact of placing Hyde Park under the control of the police had led to a considerable increase; but a far greater expense had been incurred in connection with the railings which had been torn down.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  expressed a hope that the gates of the Marble Arch at the end of Oxford Street would be thrown open, instead of being kept closed, as they were now.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  trusted the noble Lord would not sacrifice, by hasty leasing or sale, the surplus lands of Battersea Park.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that if the public were not allowed to have access to Richmond Park, through the private road alluded to, it would be for the Department to consider whether they would not recommend the closing the gate altogether.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, it would be in the recollection of hon. Members that the original Estimate for building the Houses of Parliament was £750,000; and up to this time they had voted £2,250,000, and after all this expenditure there was not, in the entire building, one good room. As a Member of the Refreshment Committee, he called attention to the narrow, low, ill-ventilated dining-room, and to the necessity of providing better accommodation. A common dining-room for Lords and Commons had been proposed, and some Peers to whom he spoke rather approved the project, but it was not acceded to. The average number of those who dined in the House of Commons in the course of a Ses-
 301
 MR. OSBORNE  said, the view he took of this Vote was that, after the Vote for Fortifications, it was the most objectionable —indeed in some respects it resembled the Fortifications Vote. The hon. and gallant Member below him (Colonel French) who so well represented the kitchen Department, and to whom they all owed a debt of gratitude for his great exertions, had properly called attention to the bad accommodation of the Commons dining-room. One reason given, indeed, for the longer life of the Lords was that they so seldom dined in the House; and to condemn Members to what was ironically called the refreshment-room was exacting from them a severe penalty indeed. But he had not risen for the purpose of going into the kitchen Department. The sum originally voted for the building of that House was £750,000, and the country had expended on it, not £2.250,000, but upwards of £3,000,000. And what had they got? He wondered why Sir Charles Barry's and Mr. Pugin's descendants, intead of quarrelling as to who was the architect of the building, had not endeavoured to push the question altogether aside. Why, there was no country in the world with a Constitutional Assembly that had it housed in so uncomfortable and unhealthy a place. Here was a Vote for completing the Clock Tower, and for works in New Palace Yard and its approaches, including the erection of an arcade and the formation of a subway, upwards of £13,600. What he wanted to know was by whose orders was this arcade, which was ruining the façade of the building, erected? It was not in the original Estimate, and the effect of it was to dwarf the building, already placed in a hole, and to darken
 302 303
 MR. LAYARD  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Osborne) was not quite correct as to the case of Mr. Maclise, for he (Mr. Layard) had the honour of bringing his claims before the Committee on a previous occasion. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend that Mr. Maclise had not been fairly treated. Mr. Maclise, with a delicate sense of honour, made no application, but left his case in the hands of the Commissioners; but that was not the way that others bad acted. Other artists had not completed their work, and a recommendation was made that they should get an increased sum, and it was voted to them; but it was not voted to Mr. Maclise, on the ground that he had completed his work, which was as much as to say that because he had done his duty he should get nothing additional, while others who had not done their duty should have additional pay. He regretted that Mr. Maclise had never been authorized to carry out the series of frescoes for which he had been directed to make designs. Now, he affirmed that there were no frescoes so remarkable, so important, and so likely to be interesting to future generations as those of Mr. Maclise; they had been executed with the greatest possible care, and they were a faithful record of two great events in English history. Therefore they were far more important and interesting than mere works of imagination. Mr. Maclise, however, did receive some extra sum; but he (Mr. Layard) would cordially support a farther grant to him in order to continue his frescoes.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) in what he bad said about the statues in Westminster Hall. He would venture to say that anything more incongruous than to put into a hall of the reign of Richard II. statues which were in the worst style of art of George III. could not be imagined. He was sure the noble Lord (Lord John Manners) would not allow them to remain there; but he should like to hear him say so. As a matter of art he should be sorry to see the statue of Oliver Cromwell placed there, though irrespective of that he should have a word to say against such a proposal. So also would the Irish Members, for if ever there was a tyrant and op-
 304 305
 MR. BENTINCK  wished to make one or two observations upon the statues in Westminster Hall. In the first place, he wanted to know why they had been placed there? [Mr. OSBORNE: Where do they come from?] He believed they were originally intended for the Royal Gallery; but that place not being adapted to receive them they had been wandering about under the guidance of the First Commissioner of; Works. When the subject was discussed last year, nothing was said as to where the statues were to be placed, and it was therefore rather a surprise to hon. Members, when they returned after the Recess this year, to find in Westminster Hall five of these statues in marble placed upon permanent pedestals, and one of Charles II., with his favourite spaniel, in plaster on a temporary pedestal. No doubt the transporting of those statues to Westminster Hall must have been attended with considerable expense. It was not right that the First Commissioner of Works should have the power of moving these statues about without previously asking permission to do so from the Committee. He wished to have some information about the drinking fountains in Palace Yard. Was the extraordinary erection at the corner of Great George Street one of them? [A VOICE: It's Buxton's.] It resembled a Chinese extinguisher, and was copied, no doubt, from something taken in the Chinese war. As to Mr. Maclise's frescoes he believed that the Fine Arts Committee of 1864 heard the evidence, and that three or four years afterwards they were called upon to vote an additional sum of money to that gentleman, and it was a matter of doubt whether they should now embark in any fresh expenditure. The water glass pictures were fading away, and would soon present an appearance equally deplorable with that of Mr. Dyce's pictures.
 MR. CLAY  thought that whatever the opinion might be as to the expense of moving the statues into Westminster Hall, he hoped that no one would object to the expense of taking them away.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  hoped that as the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir George Bowyer) had so strong an objection to the present House of Commons, he would give his assent to the plan that was about to be introduced, by which ample
 306
 MR. GORE LANGTON  protested against the erection of a new House. The sums that had been wasted on the House were perfectly scandalous. The inconvenience of the House had been very much exaggerated. Moreover, the ablest architect having been employed, there was no guarantee that an untried man would furnish better accommodation.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  asked for definite information whether a new building was in contemplation?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  complained of the accommodation provided for this House when summoned to the House of Lords, Members being penned in, and the Speaker having to stand like a prisoner in a dock. He did not care for himself, but proper respect should be paid to the Head of this House — the Speaker. Why should he not have a seat and be treated like a gentleman, for he was one?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, as to the dining-room accommodation, that last year a proposal was made by him which found favour in the eyes of the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel French), and the other Members of his Committee, that there should be joint Dining-rooms for the Members of both Houses, and that the Tea-room, the Conference-room, and the adjoining House of Lords' Committee-room should be
 307 308 309
 MR. STACPOOLE  asked, if there would be any objection to establish a communication by speaking-tubes between the doorkeepers and the various apartments about the House to which Members retired, so that they might learn with facility what was going on in the House?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : That question had better be postponed to see whether we are in future to meet permanently in this House or in another place.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he did not think the explanations given by the noble Lord with respect to the mode in which the public money was expended were at all satisfactory. The noble Lord had told them that certain Members of the House had suggested the erection of the arcade; but why should the noble Lord listen to suggestions of private Members which incurred an outlay of not less than £14,000? He should like the noble Lord to inform them whether it was proposed that any more of those statutes should be placed in Westminster Hall? For his part he believed that they were entirely unfitted for such a site. Westminster Hall was, in fact, used as a lumber-room for those statutes, and if the noble Lord did not know where else to put them, he (Mr. Osborne) would recommend that they should be sent to that refuge of the destitute the Kensington Museum. With regard to the ventilation of the House, he would observe that he ought to be qualified to give an opinion upon the subject, for he had sat in that House as much as the noble Lord, and he hoped to relieve the noble Lord of the duty of occupying a place upon that Bench. He was surprised to hear his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes) making any objection to the enlargement of the House, because they all knew that his hon. and gallant Friend was constantly
 310
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  explained that he had not said the statues were a disgrace to the reign of George III., nor did he say anything to be painful to the artists. What he said was that, being costumed in the style of the reign of George III., the statues were out of place in a hall built by Richard II.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he must in justice insist on his hon. Friend the Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) recalling his statement that he (Colonel Sykes) was in the habit of occupying the seats of other Members. During the eleven years he had been in Parliament no question had arisen between him and another Member, except on one occasion in the present Session, and then his usual seat had been taken by another Member; and he had always occupied the same seat, or a corresponding seat on the opposite side of the House.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he could not agree with the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) about the statues, which were quite as great an ornament to Westminster Hall as the doorways on the opposite side. There were two things in the Hall to attract attention, the statues and the apple stall, and the attention of the public was divided between them. The hon. and learned Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) had told them that it was a monstrous thing to put up statues dressed in the costume of the reign of George III. in a hall built by William Rufus. [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: Richard II.] He took issue with the hon. Baronet, for he believed the hall was built by William Rufus. But at all events, it was a Gothic hall, and they were then sitting in a Gothic building; so that if the doctrine of the hon. Baronet were to prevail, they could place no statue in that building unless they covered it in a Gothic costume, and they ought themselves to dress in the same style. They could not alter the building according to the people who sat in it, and if they wished to erect statues of great men they must represent them in the dress they were in their time. All these objections were futile, and as the statues had been shown to be too big for any other place, they could not do better than leave them in Westminster Hall, for which they could not be too big. He hoped the public at large would express their opinion upon the subject instead of the decision being
 311
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  challenged the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) to take a division on the item, for he believed that a very large majority of the Committee would be in favour of leaving the statues where they now stood. Though they might not be so fine as the statues in the corridor leading to the House of Lords, they were extremely well placed, and the public received pleasure from viewing them.
 MR. OSBORNE  accepted the challenge of the hon. Member (Mr. T. Hankey), and moved the omission of the item of £330 for pedestals for statues in Westminster Hall, for iron gates to the Royal Court, and for a drinking fountain in New Palace Yard.
 COLONEL W. STUART  asked the hon. Member for Nottingham whether he objected to the drinking fountain?
 MR. OSBORNE : I leave the drinking to you.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he understood that there was an intention to place the statue of Lord Palmerston at the back of the statue of Sir Robert Feel in New Palace Yard, so that the two statues would be back to back. He wished to know whether there was any such intention. With regard to the statue of Sir Robert Peel he would venture to say that any statue so discreditable to the art of this country had never been raised, and that something ought to be done either to improve the statue or remove it.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the hon. Gentleman would find on the Votes of tomorrow night a Motion for the removal of the statue of Sir Robert Peel.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that business of great importance remained to be transacted, especially the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) for the introduction of a Bill on the subject of the Irish Church. He therefore moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, there were several Votes which would be agreed to without discussion, and after they were gone through there would be no objection to report Progress.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, the hon. Gentleman might withdraw his Motion, for he believed the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) was not in the House to move for the introduction of his Bill.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  objected to the Vote, and asked, whether it was intended to re-furnish the Embassy House at Paris, on which a very considerable sum had been expended?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that when Lord Lyons went to Paris there were some necessary changes in the furniture at the Embassy which had occasioned some expenditure.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  understood that when Lord Lyons went to Paris he received a sum of £2,000, a portion of which was to be devoted to the re-placing of furniture at the Embassy. He moved to reduce the Vote by £1,000.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  explained that the Embassy House at Paris was the property of the Crown. The furniture was very dilapidated and absolutely required replacing. Lord Lyons received no such sum as that stated by the hon. Member for any such purpose.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  asked the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, if he could confirm that statement?
 LORD STANLEY  said, an Ambassador on going to his post received an allowance for personal outfit; but this was apart
 313
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  thought it high time these Royal palaces should be diminished. They must begin by cutting down these Votes, or they would leave nothing for the new Parliament to do.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought it would be useless in the present state of the House to press his Amendment. He begged to withdraw it.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, they were asked to pay last year £40,000, this year £22,000, making £62,000 for fittings and furniture for the Foreign Office, and thought it was time to inquire when that expenditure would end?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he believed no further Vote would be required for the internal fittings and furniture of the new Foreign Office; but if the external elevation was to be carried out as originally intended by the architect, so as to harmonize with the India Office, a further sum would probably be necessary for statues.
 LOUD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the only Votes which would now be asked for were those to complete Votes already sanctioned by Parliament.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he did not wish to interfere with the Motion which the right hon. Member for South Lancashire was about to bring forward; but before Progress was reported he wished to ask the Committee to consider the principle on which Votes should be taken.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  appealed to the Chairman whether the hon. Gentleman was not out of order?
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the Question before the Committee was that he should report Progress; and on that Motion it was not competent for an hon. Member to discuss the Votes.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he did not propose to discuss the Votes, but to raise a question as to the principle on which the Votes should proceed. The hon. Member was about to explain this principle, when—
 MR. CLAY  appealed to the Chairman, whether he was not persisting, in spite of the intimation which had been given from
 314
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, his hon. Friend desired to raise a question of some public importance. He had privately explained to him the position he was about to take, and it was one which deserved the serious attention of the House. At that late hour it was not likely that such attention could be secured for it; and therefore he asked his hon. Friend to postpone raising the question until the House next went into Committee.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  opposed the introduction of the Bill, and considered that he was perfectly justified in so doing after the opinion freely expressed by Members opposite that it was too late to proceed with Public Business. It was his full intention to oppose this Bill at every stage, upon the same grounds that had been put forward by a Gentleman long holding a great position in that House, and he could not do better than read these opinions, which were given many years ago—
 "One great part of the mission of the Irish Church was the instruction of those who belonged to it in the maxims of religion, loyalty, and truth. Has it failed in that respect; or are they not, on the contrary, to be reckoned among the most loyal and devoted subjects of the Crown? England is a Protestant State; it ought, therefore, to uphold the Protestant religion. What does that mean? That while we respect the antiquity and the practices of the Church of Rome, we also assert the right of private judgment and the independence of the human mind. I trust that a Church which retains the just authority of a Christian Church, which teaches the Scriptures and the unadulter-
 315
 MR. GLADSTONE : What is the hon. Member quoting from?
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : I am quoting from the right hon. Gentleman himself in 1835, speaking in the House of Commons upon the question of the Irish Church, in opposition to its persistent foe, Lord Russell. I move, Sir, that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that, when on the previous day he had called the attention of the House to the fact, that it wanted less than ten minutes to six o'clock, and that no time consequently remained for the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) to give any explanation of the contents of this Bill, he pursued no unusual course. There was an analogy between the manner in which what was termed the private business of the House—that which related to matters of detail, to personal or local matters—was conducted, and the practice of the House in Bills of the most important character. The 26th Standing Order related to matters touching such property as that affected by the Bill, when affected in detail by Private Bills. The 26th Standing Order directed that—
 "Previously to the deposit of a petition for leave to bring in a Bill relating to the Crown, Church, or corporation property, or property held in trust for public or charitable purposes, before the first reading of any such Bill brought from the House of Lords, notice in writing of such application to Parliament shall be served upon the owners or reputed owners of such property, and the lessees or reputed lessees of such property, holding leases for a life or lives, or for any term of twenty-one years or upwards." Gazette 316
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, before answering the Questions of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, I wish to make a reference to the supposed quotations of the hon. and gallant Member for Dungannon, made from what he says was a speech of mine. I was desirous that without the least delay the hon. and gallant Gentleman should give me an opportunity of verifying those quotations; but he was unable to give me any information that would enable me to do so.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : I have reason to believe that the first part of my quotation was from the speech made by
 317
 MR. GLADSTONE : What I want is a reference. I wish the hon. and gallant Gentleman to observe the mode of procedure he has adopted. He produces passages of which I have no recollection, of which I can find no trace, and which I do not believe ever proceeded from my mouth or from my pen. I asked him from what he quoted? He says—without giving any particulars—that the first part of his quotation was from a speech I made when I was in Office, and the latter part, he believed from a work in two octavo volumes, published twenty-seven years ago, which do not seem to have attracted him sufficiently to induce him to read them for the improvement of his mind or for any other object. Till the hon. and gallant Gentleman gives me a reference, I must ask the House to suspend their judgment as to the authorship of those remarkable passages. I am glad to see that the hon. and gallant Gentleman is getting assistance from the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone ( Lord Claud Hamilton
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : If the right hon. Gentleman wants the page—
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and gallant Gentleman has no right to interrupt the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. GLADSTONE : As the hon. and gallant Gentleman has given me no reference, it is not in my power to deal with his quotations; but I must say that I do not think any Member of this House has a right to use passages, on which he intends to found a charge, without at the same time naming the source, so as to give the person to whom those passages are attributed a means of verifying the quotations. 318 319
 MR. VANCE  said, that although the right hon. Gentleman had thrown a doubt upon the accuracy of the passage quoted by the hon. and gallant Member for Dungannon, yet he could not deny that he had made the strongest appeals from time to time, to that House, in favour of the Irish Church. He thought that the course now adopted by the right hon. Gentleman cast a grave imputation on his consistency. He believed that if the right hon. Gentleman had been in Office the House would not have heard of any attack upon the Irish Church. He believed that had Lord Derby been in Office they would not have heard of it. He believed that its object was to crush the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), who had risen to the post he occupied by his own talent and industry, and to prevent his obtaining a fair trial from that House. According to precedent, they had every right to oppose, if they pleased, the first reading of the Bill. They knew its contents; and its contents were such that he apprehended they were entitled to oppose it. He remembered that more than once a Bill for securing vote by ballot had been successfully opposed on the first reading. This was, therefore, not an unprecedented and unusual course. He was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire state that, after the reception of the Queen's Message, he had a right to introduce the Bill; but, at any rate, the right hon. Gentleman had introduced it, and they had a right to treat it as they pleased. As they bad not seen the Bill, and as it was desirable they should be in possession of that most pernicious document, he should recommend his hon Friends to reserve their
 320
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  said, he thought in this important crisis he should be warranted in moving that the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire should be read by the Clerk at the Table. ["Oh, oh!"] He was sure the House would give him credit for saying that he would not do anything factious, or in the spirit of party. It would be most advantageous to hon. Members—anxious as he believed they were, on both sides of the House, that the Bill should be fairly discussed—to know what were the motives of the right hon. Gentleman in bringing forward the Bill. A perfect understanding of what was about to be done would very much facilitate matters. He did not know that he was quite in order in moving that the Bill be read by the Clerk at the Table; but many of those who were accustomed to pin their faith to the principles of the maintenance of Church and State peculiarly advocated by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) would be glad to know why he had changed his opinions.
 MR. SPEAKER : I understood the noble Lord to move that the Bill be read by the Clerk at the Table.
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  again rose to address the House, but being met by loud cries of "Order," resumed his seat.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  complained that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered his Question as to when he proposed that the second reading should be taken.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said it had escaped him to answer the Question; but he might now state that, presuming he obtained leave to bring in the Bill, as the Bill was short, and as he hoped it would be in type to-morrow, he proposed to fix the second reading for Friday, the 22nd.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I have to ask the permission of the House to make an explanation of a matter which has occurred in the course of this debate. ["Hear, hear !"] Aided by my Friends—for I, also, have Friends as well as the hon. and
 321 "By all that we see and know of the history of the country, this is—and I glory in the thought— a Protestant State. What does that mean? That while we respect the antiquity and the authority of the Church, we also assert the right of private judgment and vindicate the independence of the human mind. I trust that a Church which retains the principle of a Christian Church—which teaches the Scriptures and the unadulterated truths of the Church of England, will never be overthrown by a British House of Commons. It cannot be destroyed except by the vote of a recreant Senate and an apostate nation." — [3  Hansard
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  attempted to address the House, but was stopped by cries of "Order."
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he would be happy to obtain a hearing for the hon. and gallant Member if the ground on which he claimed to be heard could be admitted.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : I wish to say one word in answer to the right hon. Gentleman. ["Order !"]
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman obtained a hearing in order to make a personal explanation.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : I do, also. I wish merely to thank the right hon. Gentleman for corroborating my words; and to say that, when I have an opportunity of referring to the documents as he has had, I have no doubt I shall be able to answer him.
 MR NEWDEGATE  said, that, in the confusion which prevailed, he could not hear the day proposed for the second reading.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that when a Bill was brought in and read the first time the second reading was then fixed.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT : I wish to ask the hon. and gallant Member upon what grounds he attributed the speech of the Right Hon. Mr. Whiteside to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire?
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : From  Hansard
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped that the usual fortnight would be allowed for the consideration of so important a measure.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, he admitted the Government was in a minority upon this subject; but that was no reason why they should not have sufficient time to consider the provisions of the Bill before they were called upon to pronounce an opinion upon it. Time was not pressing, and there was plenty of business to transact in the meantime. Their being in a minority was no reason why they should not have fair play and endeavour to defend themselves.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he was sure the hon. and gallant Gentleman would wish the Business of the House to be conducted in its regular course. The practice was, on every occasion that a Bill was brought in, to fix the second reading after it had been read a first time. That, be presumed, would be the course adopted on the present occasion. He wished to ask the hon. Member if he intended to press his Motion for the adjournment of the House?
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, he wished to ask an important Question of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire. He regretted that he had only been able to give him private Notice after he entered the House. The question he wished to ask was, After what hour he will not take the Suspensory Bill; and, whether, as the right hon. Gentleman can bring the matter before Parliament without the least delay, and without interfering with the necessary business of the country, he will, if he still persists in his present intentions, introduce the Bill at such an hour as will permit a full discussion?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I have no difficulty in answering the question for want of Notice, because it appears to me to be simple in its character. The Motion which I have to make for the introduction of this Bill is a Motion which I believe, in conformity with the ordinary usages of the House, I should have been perfectly justified in making immediately after the Report of the Resolutions which passed through the Committee, and a Motion for leave to introduce a Bill under such circumstances, as far as my recollection goes, is uniformly acceded to as a matter of course. It was from motives which I explained on a former occasion that, in deference to the Crown, I did not bring in the Bill at that time, I trust I shall be allowed to put
 248
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : We shall feel it our duty in this case to give the right hon. Gentleman a precedent for future occasions in regard to the introduction of Bills of such a nature.
 MR. GLADSTONE : It is to be regretted, although I do not think it is matter of blame to anyone, that there was no discussion on the subject of this Bill when it was read a second time; because it involves consideration of a nature that can hardly be discussed in Committee, unless we consider broader questions than are raised by any clause on the Motion for postponing the Preamble. With regard to the principal provisions of this Bill, we are in a position of very considerable difficulty, and it is only by the disposition of the sections of the House to co-operate that we have any chance of getting out of that difficulty. I will endeavour to explain the difficulty. First, I may say, for myself and those with whom I have had the means of communicating, that no part of the difficulty arises from the conduct of the Boundary Commissioners. They had entrusted to them a difficult duty with regard to the alteration of the existing boundaries of boroughs, and with scanty guidance from the House. They were to inquire into the boundaries of all boroughs, subject to the condition that they were in no case to recommend the contraction of those boundaries; but the main object of their inquiry was to be to ascertain whether the boundaries should be enlarged so as to include within the limits of boroughs—
 "All premises which ought, due regard being had to situation or other local circumstances, to be included therein for the purpose of conferring upon the occupiers thereof the Parliamentary franchise." 249 250 251 "We found, in some cases, a general indisposition on the part of persons residing in the neighbourhood of a borough to permit themselves to be included within the Parliamentary boundaries —an indisposition which, in almost every case, was attributed to the fear of an extended Parliamentary boundary being followed by a similar extension of the municipal area, and that they would then be liable for the borough rates." 252 253 254 de die in diem 255
 MR. M. T. BASS  said, he desired to express complete satisfaction with all that had been done by the Commissioners. It appeared to him that while the Commissioners had examined the cases of 222 boroughs, 128 had not been touched at all, nine were new boroughs, and only eighty one were dealt with. It seemed to him, therefore, very undesirable that 128 boroughs which had not been touched, and that large proportion of eighty one which had been considered, should be deprived of the benefit of what the Commissioners had done, because there were some twelve or fifteen or twenty boroughs to the arrangements about which very strong objections had been taken in detail. He had been in hopes, after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government would have said something more satisfactory than he had done. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted, provisionally, the force of many of the suggestions that had been made; but had declared himself in favour of none. He should be glad to know whether the Government would consent to the appointment of a Select Committee, if such a proposal were made by any hon. Member, under such conditions as they might think fit? Considering the grave objections which had been raised, he would be glad, if he were not taking too great a liberty, to invite the Commissioners to tell the House
 262
 MR. BRIGHT : I shall not, in any observations I may make, complain of what the Commissioners have done. But the House will recollect that last year I objected to the Commission—I mean to the names as they stood on the Commission. I did not say that they were not all very honourable men; but I thought I should have liked to see the Commission formed
 264 265 A laugh 266 267 268 Laughter
 MR. GLADSTONE : I should prefer that we should wind-up this conversation at once, rather than that we should commence another debate. ["Order, order !"] If the House would indulge me for a few moments, perhaps the discussion might be shortened. ["Order, order!"]
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am anxious that we should arrive at a clear understanding upon this subject as soon as possible. My distinct opinion is that there is so great a disposition in all quarters of the House to come to an agreement upon this matter, that nothing but a little time and consideration are necessary to enable us to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion with regard to it; but, at the same time, we must not come to a premature decision upon it. The general sense of the House appears to be
 280 bonâ fide
 MR. BRIGHT : I presume there will be some notice given before the Committee is appointed; but I wish now to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he thinks it right that the Committee should consist of so small a number as five Members, instead of the number being extended to seven. Upon another point I may add that in many boroughs by which no petitions have been presented an idea prevailed that there would be an appeal from the Report of the Boundary Commission to that House, and, except for the course which has been taken to-night, they would not have been altogether mistaken. I wish to say that there
 282
 MR. GLADSTONE : I would like to present a point of some weight. Is the Report of the Committee to be final on the question of boundary, or only on the question of postponement? If the Report is to be final with respect to boundary, then its task will be much more formidable than if it was to report only on postponement. A serious difference of opinion will often justify postponement, but not a final decision.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, the subject had occasioned very considerable discussion in the course of the evening in the other House of Parliament, where the Bill was in Committee. The result had been that the Chairman reported Progress, and the Department of the Government responsible for the conduct of the Bill having had their attention called to the subject, he would state their determination on a future occasion.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he proposed to take the second reading of the Bill on Friday, the 22nd. Feeling fully sensitive of the courtesy that had been shown him by hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House, he wished to inform them that it was not his wish, nor the wish of those with whom he had been in communication, to make any unfair use of that disposition to bring forward hurriedly the further consideration of this Bill. But how stood the matter? The substance of the Bill was in complete correspondence with the second Resolution, which had been before the House for a lengthened period. There were no proposals of a political character in it, nor one involving constitutional privileges, nor any elaborate amplification of detail which differed materially from the second Resolution. That being so, and the Bill being very short and perfectly well understood, and embracing no novel principle, and as it would have been introduced in usual course but for the respect shown to the Royal Prerogative on Thursday of last week, giving fully a fortnight or fifteen days before the day he now proposed for its second reading, he hoped the House would acquit him of any undue haste in the matter.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  inquired, whether the right hon. Gentleman's list would include the boroughs the petitions of which had been presented that evening?
 LORD HENRY THYNNE  said: Mr. Speaker, I beg to move that the Bill be read by the Clerk at the Table.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he was anxious to say a few words with respect to the proposal that the Select Committee should be appointed by the Committee of Selection. He was one of those the habits of whose life had been not to shirk duties properly placed upon them, and he had performed the duties devolving upon him as Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee and Committee of Selection to the best of his ability. It was not therefore to avoid any trouble in that capacity that he now asked the House not to cast upon the Committee of Selection the duty of choosing the members of the Committee now to be appointed. Such a task was quite foreign to its duties and its habits. The duty of the Committee of Selection was to choose Members to serve on Private Bills who should be, as far as possible, unconnected, directly or indirectly, with
 278
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that the result of the recommendations of the Committee was that a room, ninety feet long and fifty feet wide, had been provided for the purpose of a library, and no complaints had been received of want of accommodation; though if it were found to be insufficient there would be no difficulty in increasing it considerably. The recommendations of the Committee respecting the Museum of Patents were not very clear, and the Government, for various reasons, did not intend to submit any proposals on the subject to Parliament.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the Government intend to carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee on the Patent Office of 1864, and of the Commissioners of Patents made at various periods, with regard to the Library and Museum of the Patent Office, and to find proper accommodation for them; and, if not, why not?
 MR. DISRAELI : My only reason for naming the Committee of Selection was in consequence of a suggestion made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Morpeth (Sir George Grey), which seemed to be accepted by the House. But I have no particular predilection for that mode of appointment, and, indeed, would rather follow the usual course, and leave it to the House to appoint the Committee.
 MR. DISRAELI : They will have that power; but I may state that if the House would allow us to go into Committee I should not be forced constantly to break our rules by answering questions, because I could then answer every question put to me.
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Gentleman has succeeded in pointing out a great many difficulties which we shall have to encounter in considering the Report of the Boundary Commissioners; and I apprehend that no Bill of this extent, scope, and dimensions can possibly be brought under the consideration of this House without such difficulties being experienced. But I am fain to believe that with patience and temper we shall encounter no difficulties that may not be settled in a manner satisfactory to the large majority of the House, and, I hope, entirely satisfactory to the country. I was very much pleased to hear the right hon. Gentleman take up a sound position with regard to the labours of the Commission—a position, indeed, which we should all expect from one of his ability and experience. I am glad that he did not impugn those labours. If we were to sanction the Motion of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert) we should be taking a course which we should afterwards regret, and which would injure the character of Parliament. If we interfered in such a manner with the recommendations of eminent men, statutory Commissioners unanimously appointed by Parliament, whose duties were defined by Parliament, and who had fulfilled those duties most laboriously and conscientiously, it would be difficult to get any Gentlemen again to labour under such circumstances for great purposes of State. I was glad, therefore, to find that on this point the right hon. Gentleman took a position which one would expect from a Member of his standing and experience in this House. Then, let me say one word upon the nature of the Bill before us. It is really not in spirit a Government measure — that is, it is not a measure which has even been submitted to the Cabinet, because there was no question of policy upon which the opinion of the Cabinet was required. The Government have acted simply as the trustees of Parliament. They have taken the Report of the Commissioners, and have been careful to bring it under the consideration of the House in a businesslike and effec-
 256 257 258 de die in diem
 MR. DISRAELI : I believe it will be for the convenience of the House that I should again address them, and I hope that they will favour me with their indulgence during a few moments for that purpose. The obligations of the House and of the country to the Commissioners appear to me to be so considerable and so incontestable that I refrained from responding to the invitation of hon. Gentlemen opposite that I should express the views of the Government upon this subject until the Commissioners had favoured us with their opinions with respect to it. A considerable majority of the Commissioners who could be communicated with have expressed opinions similar to those we have heard from my right hon. Friend (Mr. Russell Gurney), and from the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Crossley), and I have therefore no hesitation in saying, on the part of the Government, we shall be most happy to meet the wishes expressed. I have noted some points of detail as the discussion proceeded; and what we propose is that there shall be a Committee of five, to be appointed by the Committee of Selection; that it shall sit from day to day; that its investigations shall be limited to places that have already petitioned; that it shall have power to confer with the Commissioners, and that the evidence shall be purely documentary. These five points embrace all that I believe the House seeks. On the understanding that we take early steps to carry this arrangement into effect, I conclude the House will have no objection to go into Committee.
 COLONEL BROWNLOW KNOX  said, this was a question of great and vital importance. The Speaker had said it was unusual to do so, except on extraordinary occasions. This was an extraordinary occasion, and he was in order in pressing the Motion that the Clerk at the Table should read the Bill. As only a week was
 323
 MR. MONK  said, he had placed a Notice on the Paper for referring the first schedule of the Bill to a Select Committee. He could not support the Motion of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert) for the omission of the 4th clause, because he thought it would be unfair towards the people in the suburbs of great towns who had been led to expect by the Bill of last year that they would have a share in the representation of the boroughs to which they must ultimately be attached. The omission of that clause would be tantamount to the postponement for some five or six years of the right of those persons to a voice in the choice of representatives. If, however, the suggestion to refer the Bill to a Select Committee were adopted he thought the result would be satisfactory, and that it would really occasion no delay.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as allusion had been made by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) to the case of Aston Manor, which the Commissioners proposed should be joined to the borough of Birmingham, and as the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had also expressed his views upon the subject, he was anxious to state some facts connected with it. It was impossible to consider this subject without a reference to the wider question, of which it formed a part. In 1854 Lord Russell's Government proposed to make a large addition to the county representation. That was a wise proposal, for it would have increased the general representation of the country. As Member for North Warwickshire, for instance, he shared in the representation of from 400,000 to 500,000 people through the freeholders. He shared in the representation of Coventry and of half Tamworth, while representing 2,000 freeholders in Birmingham. The extension of the county representation was the plan which he (Mr. Newdegate) had desired; he had supported the Motion of the hon. Member for the Wick burghs (Mr. Laing) last Session, by which ten additional seats had been given to the counties;
 269 270
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the right hon. Member for South Lancashire appeared to have forgotten his position as Leader of the Opposition, and to have assumed the functions of a Cabinet Minister without being in Office or properly a confidential Adviser of the Crown. The right hon. Gentleman had no right to be acquainted with the substance of the Reply
 324
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  recalled the attention of the Committee to the fact that one of the conditions on which the Commissioners were appointed was, that they should not have power to contract boundaries; and suggested that if certain boroughs were allowed to come forward with claims to have their limits restricted the same liberty should be given to all.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought it would be unfair to refer one borough in the Isle of Wight which had
 283
 MR. CARDWELL : I am anxious to promote the end which appears almost to be attained—namely, the satisfactory and friendly settlement of this question. In general I agree with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman opposite; but I am quite sure he would be as sorry as we should be if any substantial case should be excluded from consideration in consequence of a technical rule, I wish, therefore, to be at liberty, when the Motion is made for the appointment of the Committee, to move; that the Committee be free to entertain any memorial from the inhabitants of a borough which it could have presented to the Commissioners had it not been determined to leave the matter in the hands of their Members.
 MR. HORSMAN  reminded hon. Members that the proper time to discuss the matter was when they had the terms of the Reference before them, and when the Motion was made for the appointment of the Committee.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask a Question of the Vice President of the Board of Trade, or the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, in regard to this Bill. The Bill was very much objected to in Ireland, because it would leave the oyster fisheries on the Arklow coast, beyond three miles from the shore, exposed to the incursions and depredations of French and other fishermen during close time. Something ought to be done; and he wished to know what was proposed to alleviate the grievance, which was felt very strongly, upon this subject? He hoped he should receive a satisfactory answer.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : My right hon. Friend must understand that we object to go into all the cases upon which memorials were presented. But we will go into cases as to which petitions have been presented to the House, and it will be in the option of any hon. Member who thinks any borough improperly excluded to move that it should also be referred to the Select Committee. The memorials to the Commissioners are of the most bulky character, and it would be an extravagant use of public money to print them,
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : What I propose is that all boroughs from which petitions were presented before the discussion began to-night should be put on the same footing as those from which petitions were previously received.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Upon consideration, inasmuch as there are a great many questions which will arise and must be discussed, which will have to be discussed again after the Report of the Select Committee, I believe that the best course for the Committee would be immediately to report Progress. I do not think it would save any time if we were to attempt to go on at present. I only wish to say that the proposal we shall make to the House will be this, that in naming the Select Committee we shall also name the places we propose for their consideration. We shall put the names on the Paper, and if any hon. Member should wish to add to the his he will have an opportunity of stating his case to the House. [ Cries of 
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : My proposition is that the Committee should report to the House the final decision, and that the House should take such course upon it as it may deem expedient. If they thought proper the Committee might receive documentary evidence on both sides, but not call witnesses.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  replied in the affirmative.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I admit that it is very desirable that we should arrive at a fair understanding as to what has been settled. As I understand, the majority of the House has agreed that a Committee shall be appointed, and that that Committee shall be chosen by the Committee of Selection. ["No, no!"] Then, I will only say that it has been agreed that a Committee consisting of a small number of Members—say, of five —shall be appointed, which shall have referred to it all cases in which petitions have been presented to the House and are now on the table. It must be remembered that the memorials have not been presented to the House, but to the Commissioners,
 281
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone), and my hon. Friend the Member for Derby (Mr. M. T. Bass), have both stated that great difficulties are about to arise with regard to the Bill, and that the Government ought to meet them by some preliminary step. But, in the first place, the Government are not prepared to admit that great difficulties will arise. I believe that my hon. Friend (Mr. Goldney) has overstated the case. There are certain cases in which, I believe, the House will come to an unanimous decision, in conjunction with the Commissioners — that certain things which they have recommended, on account of the terms to which they were bound down, might be set aside with great advantage both to the borough and to the county. In addition to this, there may be many other cases which are open to consideration; but at this moment I believe there are not more than seven or eight cases which will require the careful attention of the House. And if the Committee of this House is not able to deal with seven cases, in a very short time it will be giving itself a character which it does not deserve. The right hon. Gentleman opposite says he does not object to go into Committee, Well, let us go into Committee, and see whether any of these very great difficulties which have been specified will arise. If they do, then will be the time to consider them; and the Government will be prepared to do so.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied, that the hon. Member was misinformed as to the salaries of those officers. The establishment at Dublin and that at Glasgow were in precisely the same classification as regarded the salaries of the clerks. The Chief Clerk at each place had a salary of £350, rising by annual increments to £400. It was true that the Collector at Dublin had a higher salary than the Collector at Glasgow, because he was a sort of Surveyor General in Ireland.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, he had to inform his hon. and gallant Friend that the Report to which he had alluded made no such recommendation as he appeared to suppose. The Committee confined their recommendation exclusively to the employment of two Commissionaires in the office of the Registrar General of Seamen. It was not their duty to report generally. The Report was a confidential one, addressed to the Board of Trade, and he therefore could not lay it on the table.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to mention a case which showed the force of the objection of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole). The inhabitants of Chiswick had petitioned against being united with Kensington and Chelsea, preferring to remain in the county; but if the Committee were only to look into the matter with that petition before them, they would not be able to see the force of the case, because there was a compact entered into last year that Fulham should be added to Kensington and Chelsea, and that in that case Chiswick should be left out. There should be some supplementary evidence given to the Committee in addition to the petitions, which did not enter into the merits of the case.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, What steps the Government propose to take to remedy the alleged evils and hardships which have resulted from the abolition of the Compound-Householder; whether it is intended to introduce home general scheme of uniformity of Poor Rate, or whether it is intended to await the
 246
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  also thought that to cast this duty upon the Committee of Selection and Standing Orders Committee would be to place these Committees in a very invidious position. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) would take the ordinary course with respect to the appointment of the Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER : I wish to consult the House as to the order of our proceedings. The right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister made a speech in which he introduced a proposal of an entirely new character— namely, the question of referring the matter to a Select Committee. It may be the opinion of the House that the right hon. Gentleman, having already had an opportunity of expressing his opinion upon that question, other hon. Gentlemen who feel an interest in it shall also have the opportunity of speaking upon it?
 MR. SPEAKER : I have already stated that the House itself has declared the practice to be exploded; but, if an hon. Member makes a Motion to the effect that the Bill be read by the Clerk at the Table, and it is seconded, it will then be for the House to dispose of that Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER : When a proposal of a similar kind was made two Sessions ago, it was agreed by the House that the reading of a Bill by the Clerk at the Table was an exploded practice—a practice which had not been followed for many years; and that circumstance was considered to be sufficiently binding upon the House in the matter.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he hoped that the case of Marylebone would be referred to the Committee. The inhabitants of Marylebone had not complained of the arrangement proposed for their borough; but the inhabitants of Hampstead — the district to be annexed to Marylebone—had made a complaint upon the subject.
 MR. ROEBUCK : What I want to do is to appeal to the Government, and ask them what possible mischief can arise from acceding to the request made to them from this side of the House. What we all want to do is to make a satisfactory settlement of this question, and to do it rapidly. Can we have an inquiry in this House? I think that is impossible, there is such a multitude of little places; but in respect of this matter, which will affect our representation, for, perhaps, centuries, I do not think there can be so much party spirit among us that we cannot find a satisfactory Committee. If we have a Committee a certain result will follow. We can do what we want by means of a Select Committee more rapidly than in any other way, and without casting a slur on the Commissioners. They were appointed to perform certain duties; they discharged those duties, and did not step beyond them, therefore no possible slur can be cast on them. I hope that the Government, in the large and generous spirit which ought to actuate the Government of this country on such an occasion, will accede to the fair, honest, plain, and simple proposition now made to them.
 MR. ROEBUCK  suggested that the Committee should report to the House on what evidence it arrived at its conclusions.
 SIR JAMES SIMEON  asked, whether the Committee would have the power of considering questions such as limiting boundaries, on the application of petitioning boroughs, which the Commissioners had?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, in reply, that, when his attention was first drawn to the Question of the hon. Gentleman, it occurred to him, remembering the discussions and divisions of last, year with reference to the compound-householder, that it ought to have been addressed to some more responsible Member of Her Majesty's Government. The Bill introduced by the Poor Law Department in the present Session in no way affected the compound-householder. The hon. Member must be aware that on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) a Select Committee had been appointed to consider this and other questions. Now, if he might offer his private opinion, he thought that neither the House nor the Government would be likely to legislate on the subject without a full consideration of the Report of that Committee.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he quite agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for London. In compensation cases for improvements where railways or new streets had been made, the owners of houses always expected three, four, or five times as much as they would previously have been glad to accept. He thought at first that the site of the new Courts of Justice was admirably chosen; but this advantage was now likely to be more than counter-balanced by the difficulty of access to the Courts. When it was proposed to put these Courts in a given position, one of the first questions should have been — How are you to get at them? Parliament should not only have provided for the con-
 289 290
 MR. OSBORNE : The Boundary Bill is, with the exception of the Reform Act, the most important measure that has for many years come under the consideration of Parliament, and yet we have not, down to this moment, had any discussion of its principles. My constituents have not addressed any memorial to the House, and I will not say anything about my individual seat. To the instructions which were given to the Commission, and to the principle on which it has reported, I altogether object. Before the House, in its haste for co-operation and legislation, consents to shuffle off this question, let us consider whether it is better not to pass any Bill at all than to pass a bad Bill, which will not give satisfaction, and which it will be one of the first Acts of the next Parliament to repeal. I want to know what we are going to refer to a Select Committee, and whether we are going to refer merely the petitions and memorials from large towns, or whether we are going to give it power to do what the Commissioners were debarred from doing — namely, to contract the areas of boroughs. They say that in some cases there are anomalies which cannot be rectified without reducing the areas of boroughs. I want to know whether the Select Committee is to have the power to reduce the area of boroughs, and to correct these anomalies. It is very material that that should be stated. If the Select Committee is merely to rectify the boundaries of Nottingham, Portsmouth, and other boroughs, it will be of no use whatever. I will say one word with regard to the constitution of the Commission. We have heard a statement this evening from the hon. Baronet the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Sir Francis Crossley). I regard that hon. Member as a most excellent man; but I objected altogether to his being put upon the Commission, for reasons which I do not choose to give now. I cannot fall in with the excessive compliments which have been paid to that Commission. So far from its Report having given general satisfaction in the country, it has given great dissatisfaction. The Commission was appointed in a House of thirty Members at the fag end of a Session, completely worn out with passing the Reform Act; and I will venture to say that not thirty Members have gone through the voluminous Report of the Commission and the maps illustrating it. Before we appoint a Select Committee we ought to know exactly what
 277
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  recognized the difficulty suggested by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole). It was extremely difficult to say how the Committee could come, upon merely documentary evidence, to a final decision, which should have the effect of annexing one district to another for an indefinite period; but what was proposed was that, in order to save the time of the House, cases which were very doubtful and required further inquiry, should be referred to a Select Committee. But the Committee might report that they could not decide in particular cases upon mere documentary evidence, and that those cases ought to stand over for further consideration. When they came to discuss the terms of the appointment of the Committee, he thought it would be more convenient and more consonant with the general wish of the House that the Committee should be directed to report cases which, in their opinion, required further consideration, and which the House was not in a condition to deal with during the present Session.
 MR. LOWE : I wish to add one word by way of supplement to what has been said by the hon. Member for Birmingham. What he said was, I think, perfectly true, when he laid it down that if you shut out any persons who are anxious to appear before this Committee, it will be impossible for you to object to hear them before the Committee of the Whole House. I would take the opportunity to remind the House that the reason for appointing this Committee is to save the time of the full House; and if you make any strict technical rule by which to exclude persons who are really and  bonâ fide
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY : I quite agree with the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir George Bowyer) that it is absolutely necessary to settle the boundaries in the present Session, for it would scarcely be proper after a General Election to consider what a constituency ought to have been. To obviate the objection of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole), I would suggest that
 286
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY : Sir, as a Member of the Boundary Commission, I think it is due to the House and to my brother Commissioners that I should say a few words as to the principles upon which we acted in doing our work, and on the proposition now before the House. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire has called attention to the instructions which we received from the House. It was from Parliament, and Parliament alone, that we received instructions. It gave us distinct instructions as to the course we were to pursue; and I believe we have acted faithfully up to them. I think I should bring under the notice of the Mouse what were our instructions, not only in reference to the boroughs, the subject of discussion to-night, but also in reference to the boroughs to be created under the Reform Act. There is a remarkable difference in the language as regards those two different classes of boroughs. As regards the boroughs to be created, this is the language—
 "They shall, immediately, after the passing of this Act, proceed, by themselves, or by Assistant Commissioners appointed by them, to inquire into the temporary boundaries of every borough constituted by this Act, with power to suggest such alterations therein as they may deem expedient." 272 "They shall also inquire into the boundaries of every other borough in England and Wales, except such boroughs as are wholly disfranchised by this Act, with a view to ascertain whether the boundaries should be enlarged, so as to include within the limits of the borough all premises which ought, due regard being had to situation or other local circumstances, to be included therein for the purpose of conferring upon the occupiers thereof the Parliamentary franchise for such borough." 273
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he did not see how the Committee could have the full materials for forming a proper judgment before it. It should be clearly understood what would be the means at the service of the Committee to enable them to decide
 285
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he objected to the arrangement if it would exclude Portsmouth, which had not petitioned, although Gosport had, the public meeting of Portsmouth being held that very night.
 MR. STOCK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why the First Clerk in the Customs at Dublin should have a salary of only £400 a-year, his Collector's salary being £1,000, when the First Clerk at Glasgow had a salary of £450, although his Collector's salary was only £800?
 MR. MORRISON  inquired, whether it was intended to give any instructions to the Committee as to the principle on which they would make the selection of cases to be investigated? He could not see how such instructions could be given, because that was the very point at issue which the House was going to refer to the Committee to decide.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he understood that upon the appointment of the Committee they would examine into the cases of boroughs where petitions and memorials had been presented. ["No, no !"] That was what he had understood, at all events. He was sorry if he had been mistaken, because he had thought that the House would certainly agree that the cases of those boroughs which had presented memorials to the Boundary Commissioners ought to be considered, as well as the cases of those boroughs which had not thought it necessary to send petitions to that House, in consequence of their believing that their Members would take steps to bring their cases forward. The fact should not be lost sight of that many boroughs which were affected by the Report had not petitioned, simply because they had relied upon their Members taking their cases up. He did not make this observation with the idea that the House should hold out any inducement to the
 279
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  observed that an Estimate had been given of the amount of money required for the purchase of the site and other expenses for the new Courts of Law; and he wished to call attention, in connection with this subject, to the importance of providing suitable and convenient approaches to the New Palace of Justice. The Estimate for the site was £1,000,000, and for the buildings £2,000,000. Here was an outlay of £3,000,000; but what provision had been made for the approaches? None. The Courts of Law at Westminster and in the City of London would eventually be concentrated on this spot; and the amount of traffic when the new Courts were in action would be immense. It was therefore the duty of the Government, who had the management of this affair, to see that, if these magnificent buildings were placed in the centre of London, sufficient approaches were provided. There was a sort of Middle Row in the
 288
 MR. W. P. PRICE  said, he hoped that the inquiry of the Select Committee would not be limited to cases of boroughs respecting which petitions had been presented, but would include cases in respect of which Notices of Amendment had been given.
 MR. STONE also stated how Portsmouth and Gosport would be affected by the understanding come to.
 MR. TITE  said, this matter is but a portion of a large question which has been under the consideration of the Metropolitan Board since January last year. There are between 200 and 300 gates of a similar character in the metropolis, and thirty in the parish of St. Pancras alone. The Board first memorialized the House of Lords to refer the matter to the Committee inquiring into Municipal Regulations, but that was not attended to. They then applied to the Home Secretary, who, after considering the subject very carefully, replied that the case was surrounded with so many difficulties that he was unable to bring in a Bill on the subject. The particular cases referred to by the hon. Member for Chippenham are not peculiar. The Board know of no justification for charging anything in the shape of a toll, which would be illegal; but the gates bolong in many cases to the owners of the property on which the streets are built, and the Board have no power to interfere. They hope, however, to be able to bring in a Bill next Session. The expense of repairing the roads where such gates exist is, in many cases, borne by the parishes.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he was not quite sure that it was so very desirable to facilitate access to the Courts of Law, as, generally speaking, the less people had to do with them the better. He urged on the Government the necessity of their endeavouring to keep some faith with the public as to the expense of the proposed Palace of Justice, and for that purpose care should be taken that the estimates were not exceeded.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is true that in a Report of a Committee (composed of Mr. Goulburn, the Vice Controller of Customs, Mr. Farrar, and Mr. Williams, of the Board of Trade), presented to the Treasury in June 1865, a strong recommendation was made of the expediency of employing Commissionaires in the various Civil Departments of the United Kingdom, on the special grounds of "efficiency" and "economy;" and, if so, whether there will be any objection on the part of the Government to produce that part of the Report relating to the Corps of Commissionaires?
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY , as one of the Commissioners, wished to express
 274 275
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that although the inhabitants of Reading had not presented a petition, they had held a meeting, and objected to the proposal by which they were to be affected, and he thought their case ought to undergo further investigation.
 MR. POWELL  said, that memorials and petitions presented up to this time would probably contain  ex parte
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, with regard to postponement, he wished to draw attention to what had occurred thirty-four years ago with respect to the Boundary Commission for municipal purposes. In that case the plans were prepared quite carefully for the enlargement of eighty-one boroughs, which was the exact number of boroughs which the Commissioners, in the present instance, recommended should be extended. The consideration of the Bill was postponed on the plea of want of time, and from that period to this no step whatever bad been taken to carry out the Report of the Commissioners. One of the objections raised to the measure now before the House was that hon. Gentlemen would like to have the area of the Parliamentary borough extended, so that its limits and those of the municipality might be the same. But, inasmuch as the recommendations of the Commission on Municipal Boundaries had never been carried out, it would be impossible to adopt that course. He had endeavoured to gather from the petitions which had been presented, and the Notices placed on the Orders of the House, what the objections to the recommendations of the Commissioners were. In the discussion on the 31st clause of the Reform Bill, the question of Instructions to the Commissioners was very fully debated, and the right hon. Member for South Lancashire himself said that the municipal boundary ought not to be taken for the Parliamentary borough. Any one who had read the Report of the Commissioners would see that the Instructions given to the Assistant Commissioners had been most carefully prepared. They were to give notice in every town by advertisement, and they were not only to hear all the evidence brought before them, but to inspect in person the proposed boundaries. The Members of the House would probably
 261
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, Whether the Metropolitan Board of Works is aware that Iron Gates are still continued at the end of Devonshire Place and Wimpole Street, being one of the principal thoroughfares between Oxford Street and the New Road, and that such Gates are refused to be opened to the public unless a gratuity is given to the Gatekeeper; and, if the Board are aware of it, whether they propose to take any steps with reference thereto; and, further, whether the road is repaired at the public expense or by any private individual?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he did not understand precisely what was meant by documentary evidence, because the petitions and memorials were more in the nature of pleadings than evidence. Supposing the statements of a petition were impugned, how could the Committee decide as to the matters of fact unless they were empowered to call witnesses? It was not possible to postpone questions with regard to boundaries until next Session, because if they did so the wrong man might be returned at the next General Election, and it would be necessary for Members returned for boroughs the boundaries of which had not been decided to go back to their constituents as soon as the decision had been given.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : What the hon. Gentleman says is perfectly true. Memorials have been presented on one side, and unless memorials be received on the other the Committee will have but an  ex parte
 SIR GEORGE GREY : If we had before us the memorials presented to the Commissioners it might be of advantage in guiding us as to the cases to be sent to the Committee. The Commissioners state in their Report that those memorials were in their hands.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : If we go into Committee we shall soon come to the 4th clause; and the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert), unless he gets some assurance from the Government that due consideration will be given to a matter on which great local difference of opinion exists, must press his Motion. The object of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) is that some means should be taken, with the general consent of the House and with the concurrence of the Government, to make progress with this Bill without being involved in a general discussion on the Motion of the hon. Member for Oldham on the one hand, and on the several places in schedules on the other. Now, we are quite incompetent to enter upon the merits of the
 263
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he hoped the House would allow him shortly to justify the course he had taken with respect to this Bill. There were three courses which any one might take who objected to the proposals of the Boundary Commissioners. One was the proposal of the counter-schedule against the schedule in the Bill; the second was to refer the Bill to a Select Committee; and the third was the course he had adopted in the Notice he had given. There were great objections to the proposal of a counter-schedule; for, as a private Member, it would have been very invidious indeed for him to undertake to say what places ought to be excluded and what included. He also felt that it might be imputed to him that he had prepared such a schedule for party purposes, leaving out places which were supposed to be favourable to his own party, and putting in others which were unfavourable. With regard to any reference to a Select Committee, he thought that there were great objections to any such course on account of time. One reason why he proposed to omit the clause altogether was that he saw a great difficulty in passing this Bill in time to be brought into operation for the purposes of the registration. The Registration Act required that on or before the 10th of June the clerks of the peace in counties and the town clerks in boroughs
 259 260
 MR. PEASE  asked, whether the reference to the Select Committee would include the new boroughs mentioned in Schedule 5, and would also include the Notices of Motion as well as petitions lodged at the Home Office against the boundaries proposed?
 MR. PEASE  asked, whether the Notices of Motion already made will be included in the same category?
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed with the following Bills: — Land Writs Registration (Scotland), Court of Justiciary (Scotland), Court of Session (Scotland), County General Assessment (Scotland, and Entail Amendment (Scotland); and, if so, on what day?
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, that inasmuch as the evidence before the Select Committee was to be of a documentary character only, it would be only fair that Members representing a borough that considered itself aggrieved by the Bill should have the opportunity of making a statement in writing to the Committee, for it was quite possible that the matter could be brought forward more clearly and fully in that way than by memorials and petitions, and the Committee enabled to decide in a more satisfactory manner.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : I wish, Sir, to take the earliest opportunity of making a personal explanation which is due to the House, due to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), and, I think, even due to myself. I stated last night that, if I got time, I would attempt to prove that a quotation I gave, purporting to be from a speech of the right hon. Gentleman, was correct, I now honestly own that I have failed to do so; but still I am confident that the right hon. Gentleman, and many of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, will believe that I had not the slightest intention of misrepresenting the right hon. Gentleman. The fact is that a printed extract was put into my hand; and from the quarter it came from, I felt sure it was genuine. I unfortunately made use of it, not having had time to consult  Hansard,
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I may, perhaps, be permitted to say that at no period, either last evening or any other time, did it enter into my mind for a moment that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had the slightest idea of doing anything unfair, far less of palming off on the House a fictitious quotation.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the Clerkship of Assize on the Western Circuit having fallen vacant in consequence of the sudden and unexpected death of Mr. Chitty, it devolved upon the Senior Judge of the Circuit, Sir William Bovill, Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, to appoint a Clerk of Assize. The Clerkship of Assize is an ancient office, the constitution and the emoluments of which were altered by statute some time ago, and a fixed salary is now received by the Clerk in lieu of fees of considerable amount which were formerly paid to him. In performing his duties the Clerk of Assize is assisted by a Deputy Clerk of Assize, a Clerk of Arraigns, and a Clerk of In-
 344 345
 SIR HENRY WINSTON-BARRON  said, enormous sums of money had been spent in providing Royal palaces in Eng-
 359
 MR. GLADSTONE : I do not think it necessary to detain the House for more than a few minutes; but I cannot help rising to say that I do not think my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) has anything to complain of in the manner in which he has been met in this case by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. I do not think that more could have been expected from the right hon. Gentleman than the acknowledgments which he has made; and, therefore, I wish to express my concurrence in the tone of his observations. At the same time, I feel strongly with my hon. Friend; and, without indicating the precise manner in which it can be done—because this is not a fitting opportunity for anything of that kind—sympathizing as I do in the views of my hon. Friend, I may express the hope that some appropriate means way be found by which
 362
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that as he was one of those who were appointed to judge of the designs, he could not but feel that involuntarily and innocently he, with others, had been to some extent the cause of the delay which had arisen. The statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was a frank, plain spoken, and, on the whole, a true description of the conditions under which they were appointed. Under the Instructions, they had broken down—not being able, taking into account all the points which had to be kept in view, to recommend anyone plan. In these circumstances they naturally asked themselves whether, having failed in their principal duty, they could not offer a suggestion which would be better than a result perfectly blank and null. It was with that feeling his colleagues and himself tendered a suggestion—which they had no power to clothe with authority—to combine the internal arrangements of one plan with the exterior design of another. The duty of the Judges of Designs was rather to select a plan than a man; and he thought it would only be an act of justice to the profession, and especially to the distinguished gentlemen who had entered into the competition, that the Government should, without acting hastily or precipitately, lose no time in discharging that important portion of their functions—the selection of an architect from among the competitors, and that afterwards the architect should take time to consider the various questions connected with the plans.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that, while giving the right hon. Gentleman credit for extreme anxiety to hasten the dissolution of Parliament, he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman conceived there were so many difficulties in the way of arriving at that result. Though it might not be easy to hasten the dissolution of Parliament, yet he was not prepared to flinch from the responsibility cast upon the Government; and he desired to state that he believed that, if a general effort were made, the result could be attained sooner than the right hon. Gentleman had supposed. It was quite true, that the first date, on which the whole matter really turned, was the 31st of July, by which day the overseers in boroughs were bound to make out and publish the lists of occupiers of £10 houses entitled to vote, and by which day all those persons who desired to claim as lodgers under the late Act must have sent in their claims to the town clerks. According to the Registration Acts nothing further was done until the 25th of August, but on or before that day all persons who thought that they ought to be on the overseers' lists might send in their claims, and objections might be taken to names allowed to be improperly inserted in the lists. The right hon. Gentleman stated that those twenty-five days could not be greatly diminished, and that he had been informed there must be publication on the church door for two Sundays. Having had some experience in registration matters, he must say that he could not tell the reason why it was necessary that the lists should he kept up for two Sundays. Considering the limited area involved, namely, the parish, a very short time would be sufficient for the people to make up their minds. An active politician in the district would soon find out whether there were on the lists persons who ought not to be there; and he would go round to those persons who were
 378 379
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, if the House were really desirous that the revision should be advanced and hastened, it must be content that further assistance should be afforded and that the number of Revising Barristers should this year be increased. He ventured to say that no dearth of available Revising Barristers would be found; and that, by increasing the number, he had no doubt the revision could be completed in a month, or between the 22nd of August and the 22nd of September. Then as to the subsequent operations; by the existing Registration Acts the town clerk had, he knew not for what reason, to number the entire register from beginning to end in regular consecutive order. The Government thought that was an unnecessary proceeding, and that if the names in each parish were numbered, and the parishes stood in alphabetical order, it would at the polling have all the same result, because when the voter went to the poll he would say his name was on the list of such and such a parish, and that his number was one, two, or three in that parish. The effect of numbering the whole list consecutively from beginning to end was that they could
 380 381 382
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was unfortunate there should be any infringement of rules of law or Acts of Parliament for any object, however good and he should have thought it far better that laws should be repealed, than that they should be only partially enforced, it was undesirable that there should be laws which were not to be observed by charitable people—that societies should get up lotteries and say they ought not to be prosecuted, because, although they had infringed the law, they had done so with a charitable object. He would not now discuss the question, whether it was right or wrong that the laws against lotteries and little goes should be enforced; but it was not many years ago that Art Unions were prohibited by the laws against lotteries; and the legislation which took place showed clearly that while very laudable objects might be secured by drawing prizes, it was nevertheless necessary to legalize the Art Union lotteries, by special legislation, to the exclusion of all others, which were still held to be illegal. He had no knowledge of the proceedings against the lottery to which the noble Lord had referred, and probably there had been nothing more than a warning. There had, however, been brought under his notice several lotteries of a bad character; and in each case the professed object was to raise money for a charity. In one case, £30,000 worth of prizes was to be drawn for, the tickets were 5 s. 391
 THE CHAIRMAN  reminded the Committee that the Vote before them related to the enlargement of the National Gallery, and not to Burlington House.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to call attention to the Registration of Voters Act, 6  Vict. 372 373 Vict. Vict. primâ facie 374 375 Vict. 376 377
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had mentioned the time fixed for the revision under ordinary circumstances, and that there would be an extraordinary amount of business this year.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he rose to call attention to the delay in completing the arrangements for the erection of the New Courts and Offices of Justice; and to ask the First Commissioner of Works, What are the reasons of such delay, and what is the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown upon the questions submitted to them relating to the legality of the choice of a design for such Courts and Offices? It became apparent ton years ago that the present dispersion of the Law Courts gave rise to enormous expense to suitors, and to great inconvenience to counsel and attorneys, and in 1861 Parliament took the matter in hand. A Bill passed through Parliament in 1865, and a site for the New Law Courts, in which the various Courts of Law should he centralized on one spot, having been adopted, and the necessary funds provided, nothing remained but to carry out the plan agreed upon. On the 29th June, 1865, a Royal Commission was appointed to advise and confer with the Commissioners of the Treasury upon the plans and arrangements for the Now Courts. In referring to the delay that had taken place, he did not mean to complain of the Commissioners, who set to work in a business-like way, and had actually paid the money duo to the persons whoso property had been taken in almost every instance. They appointed seven Judges of Designs to consider the plans prepared by the various architects for the building. Eleven architects competed, and in July, 1867, the Judge of the Designs reported that they were unable to select any one of the plans sent in as the best in all respects; but
 363 364
 MR. DENMAN  said, he had very often passed an evening listening to discussions of this kind, though he had not taken part in them. He hoped that the noble Lord would be guided in the matter by considerations of economy, which did not seem to be much regarded by persons of æsthetic tastes. This very night it had been recommended that St. Margaret's Church should be pulled down; but it seemed to him that it would be an act of reckless extravagance to incur the expense of destroying that building merely because its appearance offended a few extremely fastidious eyes. With regard to Burlington House it would be extravagant to preserve it on æthetic grounds alone and still more extravagant to tinker it. If, in either case, it was not fit for the purpose for which it was intended; if it should be found not worth retaining, he hoped that it would not be preserved merely from a regard for its reputation as a specimen of classical architecture; but, if well suited for the object desired, he did not see why it should be pulled down.
 MR. COWPER  said, the delay had not been justified on the part of the Government. He admitted that the Government, as well as the Judges of Designs, had been placed in some difficulty by the course which the competition had taken. The designs showed great excellence, originality, and some sparks of genius. But the difficulty the Judges felt was in deciding which of these designs, under all the circumstances to be taken into account—internal arrangement, exterior design, and appropriateness—was absolutely the best. At last, finding themselves unable to agree upon the superiority of either of the designs which they specially favoured, the Judges thought it best to bracket the two architects and make a double award. He admitted that the Treasury were thereby placed in a difficulty; but he could not admit that this difficulty was one which it required four months and a half to solve. As to the expected Report of the Judicature Commission, he did not think that was a reason why an architect should not at once be appointed and a beginning made. Great efforts had been made to hasten the purchase of the ground, to clear the site, and to urge forward the competing architects, and he hoped that there would now be no further delay.
 MR. COWPER  said, he thought it would be unwise to purchase and clear land that might never be wanted; and that it would be unfair to the tenants of buildings to get rid of them before the property was actually required for public purposes. He wished to know what immediate use was to be made of the site to be acquired; and also whether the architect had completed the buildings he had commenced; and whether the new offices about to be erected formed part of the whole design?
 MR. COWPER  said, he could not allow the Committee to entertain the idea that the University of London would be placed in an inaccessible position. The fact was it was in one of the best positions to be found in Loudon. It was not in a thoroughfare where carriages were continually passing and making noise; but that was so much the better. The way to get to it from Regent Street would be through New Burlington Street. With respect to Vigo Street, it was so narrow that scarcely any advantage would be gained by opening it. If this was a matter which concerned the general traffic of the metropolis, the making of new approaches devolved upon the Metropolitan Board of Works and the parishes, and not upon the Government.
 MR. COWPER  hoped that the noble Lord would break through all this superstitious and conventional admiration for Burlington House, and would pull it down entirely. As an Italian villa residence for a private gentleman the house was all very well; but as a public building it would be an entire failure.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether he thinks it proper that the Penal Clauses of the Lottery Act should be enforced in respect to drawings of prizes for purely charitable objects? His reason for calling attention to this subject was his having received a letter from the Treasury warning him that he was liable to a penalty of £500 for being connected with a lottery. That was a thing which might abash most people. He was patron of a bazaar for charitable purposes, one of the attractions of which was a lottery or drawing for prizes, and that being so he considered it ought not to have been taken notice of in that strong official manner. The 12  Geo. Geo. Will. Vict. Will. 388 389
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he thought the suggestions of his hon. Friend (Mr. Goldney) deserved consideration. He was not wedded theoretically to the present system of land purchases, but it was necessary under the existing mode of keeping
 392
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the hon. Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) evidently had in his mind the designs exhibited a year or two ago, which, owing to the strenuous exertions of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard) had been set aside at considerable expense to the country. In answer to the complaint of those two hon. Members, that an additional story was going to be put on Burlington House, he would only say that last year, before the Government proposed to take any Vote whatever for the building,
 394
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said there had been no alteration in the plans exhibited last year, which included the erection of an additional story.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that all the carriages coming either to the Royal Academy or the learned societies would approach through Piccadilly. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the London University did not require the same kind of access as other public buildings. In all the communications which he had had with the authorities of the London
 396
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the building when restored would be used as a Chapter House.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that all street improvements had been handed over to the local authorities by Act of Parliament.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the opinion of the Attorney General on the matters referred to him had only just been received at the Treasury, and the Government had as yet had no opportunity of considering it. All he could say was, that the suggestions which had now been made should be carefully considered, and that no time should be lost.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite correct as to what he had stated about St. Margaret's Church. He thought, however, he should have been exceeding his duty if he had entered into any negotiations on the subject. But the hon. Baronet would see in the Report of the Commission on the concentration of Public Offices that there was a recommendation to the effect he had suggested.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the main suggestion which had been made in the discussion would be fatal to the whole scheme and absolutely impracticable. If he had the least idea that Burlington House would have been brought into the discussion he would have had all the plans and elevations brought down, in order that hon. Members might see what had been proposed and sanctioned last year. Before the Government took any Vote upon it they clearly explained what they proposed to do. As far as the Royal Academy was concerned, what was proposed was that they should at their own expense build rooms in the rear of Burlington House. The Academy had executed their part of the contract, and the buildings were nearly completed; and they would shortly enter into possession of Burlington House and the ground behind under a lease for a long term of years. The Royal Academy had undertaken to re-model Burlington House according to the plans exhibited in the Library last Session. As soon as the Royal Society could make way for the Academy,
 400
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  replied that when the new buildings were erected the brick buildings of which the hon. Member complained would be hidden.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was happy to be able to return a satisfactory answer to the question. Mr. Stephens was making very rapid progress with the completion of the work, and hoped in a short time to commence the necessary preparations in St. Paul's.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the House, upon the occasion of the lamented death of Lord Palmerston, gave expression, in a practical manner, to its desire that some fitting memorial of that statesman should be erected. No portion of the
 404
 MR. AYRTON  asked for an explanation from the Government of the policy on which these Votes were made. It seemed as if they were about to establish the novel principle that, wherever a body of persons subscribed a certain sum for the foundation of a College, the State was to be called
 402
 MR. AYRTON  asked whether the Moorish brick buildings would be covered by the buildings proposed to be erected?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if hon. Members were not too fashionable to travel east of Temple Bar they would find that many of the buildings erected in the City during the
 398
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he had only one remark to make in reference to an observation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. His right hon. Friend had said that he was not aware until last night of the growing feeling that a mistake had been committed in the proposed site of the Law Courts. He could assure his right hon. Friend that that was a growing feeling, and that it was very generally felt that the proper site was the Thames Embankment. He would put it to his noble Friend the First Commissioner of Works whether, as a good deal of money was to be spent, it ought not to be laid out in the most judicious manner? One thing was certain, that on the embankment the Courts would occupy a most beautiful site, quite near the Temple, and one which was far prefer-able to the site now selected. It was not yet too late to change the plan.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  wished to say a few words on behalf of the architects who had entered into that competition. With some almost infinitesimal exceptions, the voice of the educated architects and amateurs of England united in praise of the remarkable architectural talent, the broad conception, and the admirable execution which characterized that noble series of drawings. There was no doubt it would be felt as a cruel wrong by the architects and the public if the difficulties and delays were to have the effect of throwing aside those designs. He appealed to that (the Ministerial) Bench, or to the Bench opposite, whichever of them ultimately should have the carrying out of the plan, that when the time came the architect should be chosen out of that noble eleven that had competed, and that he who had long been fielding, should hold the bat and have the innings which he deserved. Otherwise there would be a controversy to which the present Pugin controversy and other controversies would be but a trifle.
 MR. HAYTER : After the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman, for which I thank him, I cannot help feeling that it will be my duty to move the omission from the Estimates of the salary of this officer.
 MR. HAYTER  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is true that the Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas has appointed his son, Mr. William Bovill, last year a Lieutenant in the 16th Lancers, to be Clerk of Assize on the Western Circuit, with a salary of £1,000 a year; and, if it be true, whether there is any precedent to justify his appointment to such office; and, whether any or what legal qualifications are regarded as necessary for holding such appointment? He found the office of Clerk of Assize thus described—
 "He is Clerk of the Crown for the respective comities included in his Circuit; is (with others) associated to the Judge in Commissions of Assize; and is, by Letters Patent, constituted a Justice of gaol delivery; he is also the Keeper of all the Records relating to the criminal proceedings of the Circuit. He cannot act as Counsel to any person on his Circuit."
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was inclined to agree with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Cowper), more especially as another story or an attic was to be added to Burlington House as a place of exhibition for the Royal Academy, which would entirely change its architectural character. The interior of Burlington House was very inconvenient even for a private residence. Unless they completely altered both the interior and the exterior, it would be impossible to make anything of it. It would have to be treated like the Irishman's knife, which was fit for nothing till it got a new handle and new blade.
 MR. LAYARD  inquired whether there was any intention of opening Vigo Street for carriage traffic when the building was completed? The thoroughfare was very much blocked up at present.
 MR. LAYARD  said, of all the architectural blunders which had ever been committed in this country that connected with Burlington House was the most considerable. In order to preserve the house entire, a large space of ground had been sacrificed, and after all the building itself would be so altered as to retain few of its original features. The House of Commons having decided that the new National Gallery should be built on its present site, it had been determined that rooms for the Royal Academy, for the London University, and for the learned societies should be built at Burlington House, but instead of building them in one group under one architect, and having one design, three architects had been employed, and there were three designs. The London University was in a fair way of being finished. The Royal Academy was nearly completed, and he believed that the annual exhibition would be held there next year; but the building for the learned societies was not yet commenced. It was now found necessary, in order to reconcile Burlington House with the buildings around it, that it should be made into something else. It was to have another story, and at the bottom an arcade, a ridiculous and absurd thing, after so great a sacrifice had been made to keep the building
 393
 MR. LAYARD  asked the noble Lord, having regard to the number of failures which had taken place in our public statues, to give an undertaking that a cast should be erected in Westminster Abbey before the statue itself was executed.
 MR. LAYARD  asked for explanations. He did not wish to say a word against Mr. Stephens, whom he believed to be a man of considerable talent; but it was plain, from the number of years that had passed, and from the amount voted in excess of the original Estimate, that there must have been considerable laxity when the contract was originally entered into. The original Estimate was £14,000; £22,800 had been voted, part of which, however, had not been spent.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the principle of supporting institutions for the promotion of learning was not a new one, but had always been recognized in this country. The application of that principle was a matter of discretion. Every second-rate town or obscure place, merely because it might subscribe a certain sum for a College, was not, as a matter of course, to receive a Vote of public money; but a degree of discrimination was to be observed in these eases. The policy of supporting institutions of learning in the kingdom of Scotland had certainly been followed in other instances. The University of Aberdeen was one example of that. A considerable sum had been appropriated to the re-construction of the buildings of Aberdeen University, and they were this year voting the final sum required to complete the amount originally proposed to be applied for its benefit. The case of Glasgow had been examined by the Government. It was the case of a poor University, with a very spirited community, who wished to place the institution on a basis suitable to the wants of the age, and who had subscribed in a very munificent manner. It was therefore thought that the State might be fairly asked to second the exertions made by the inhabitants of Glasgow for such an important public purpose.
 MR. DISRAELI : It would be desirable, Sir, to bring on the appointment of the Committee on the Boundary Bill first on Monday, and, if that seems likely to lead to any delay, we shall pospone the discussion, and so virtually the Scotch Reform Bill will be brought on first.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would take upon himself the duty of answering the Questions of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Denman), as the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works would have to answer another Question. The subject had been mooted in the House so often during the last few months, and he had answered so many Questions upon it, that he hoped to be excused from following the hon. and learned Member in all that he had said. In the explanation he was about to give he must speak from memory. The Judges of Designs were appointed jointly by the Treasury and by the Courts of Justice Commissioners. If he remembered rightly, the Treasury were to select the design, with the advice and concurrence of the Commissioners, and it was thought by the late Government that such a concurrence could be best obtained by the appointment of a Committee of Judges of Designs. After the Committee was appointed, and chiefly in consequence of representations made in this House, two professional gentlemen, Messrs. Pownall and Shaw, were added to the Judges. It was expected by the Treasury and the Commissioners that the Judges of Designs would have selected one architect, and the memorandum relating to the competition rested upon that supposition. The change of Government occurred after the Judges were appointed and the Instructions framed. When the Judges of Design sent in their Report to the Treasury, they stated that they had been unable to select any one architect, and they recommended that Messrs. Barry and Street should be employed to prepare a joint plan, considering that the design of one of them was best in point of arrangement, and the other in point of external architecture. It had been previously agreed upon between the Treasury and the Judges that a gentleman should be appointed to go through the estimates submitted by the architects, and give a professional opinion
 365 366 367
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I quite agree that there is no influence more beneficial than that which proceeds from personal relations between the people and their Sovereign. But in listening to the complaints which we have heard from various parts of the United Kingdom, arising from the absence of Her Majesty and of her predecessors, I would observe that this was largely to be attributed to the great difficulty of communication that for a long time existed between the various kingdoms over which Her Majesty rules. But the tendency of the age in which we live is very much to diminish those difficulties, if not to make them disappear altogether. And if we take a general view of the subject I think there is some evidence of a very much increased inclination on the part of the Royal Family, to visit those portions
 360 Cries of 361
 MR. MONK  asked, whether it was intended to take down the blank wall in front; of Burlington House and to erect some ornamental railings instead?
 MR. REARDEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of Stale for the Home Department, Whether it he his intention to introduce a Bill this Session for the purpose of preventing lectures upon the religious profession of faith of any of Her Majesty's subjects in any part of the United Kingdom, except in Churches and Chapels licensed for that purpose, and during Divine Service in such Churches and Chapels, without first submitting a copy of such lecture for the approval, revision, and consent of the Secretary of State for the Home Department?
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he thought he could relieve the anxiety of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock, by showing him that there was no difficulty whatever in the matter. He would do so by showing how the thing was managed in Scotland. It might be said that Scotland was a smaller country than England; but he submitted that to register a given number of thousands of electors in a borough or a county of Scotland was just the same thing as to register the same number of voters in a borough or county of England. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think there was a difficulty in regard to Scotland. But none whatever existed, and everything there was as the right hon. Gentlemen wished it to be. In 1856, the Act 19 &c 20  Vict. 386 387
 MR. M'LAREN , who disapproved setting aside a moral law mid evading statutory penalties, by an understanding arrived at in a conversation in that House, was called to Order, having already spoken.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the proposal was in strict accordance with the principle upon which the Education Grant was distributed throughout the country—namely, in the encouragement of local subscriptions. In this case, munificent subscriptions had been raised in the city of Glasgow itself, and to reject the Vote would have very much the aspect of a breach of faith.
 COLONEL FRENCH  asked why Scotland should receive one-half the costs of these Courts, while Ireland pays the whole cost of analogous Courts?
 COLONEL FRENCH  also thought it would be better to get rid of the present structure as not suited to its position. When it was originally built its owner was asked why he had expended so much money on a house so far out of town. The noble Lord's reply was, "I have gone so far in order to make it certain that no person will build beyond me."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I have no intention of introducing such a Bill; and I must protest against adding to the duties of Secretary of State for the Home Department the approval or revision of lectures upon religious subjects.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask what the intentions of the Government were in regard to the enlargement of the National Gallery? He understood that a Commission was appointed last year to procure architects to compete for the new building or for altering the present one; and that the designs sent in had been disapproved of, and consequently nothing had been done. There had been no mention of the matter during the present Session, and the consequence was that the national pictures had no location. He would be glad if her Majesty's Government would afford some information upon the subject.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would suggest that as nothing had yet been done to Burlington House, not a single stone having been removed, and as the design exhibited last year was generally disapproved, it would be better to remit the question to Messrs. Banks and Barry, that they might see whether they could not improve upon the plans already submitted to the House. Representations had been made to him in favour of preserving the fine gateway of Burlington House, and he therefore asked the noble Lord not to let it be destroyed, but, if it must be taken down, to place it in some other position in the metropolis where it would be seen to advantage.
 MR. BENTINCK  said his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Denman) misrepresented him, because if there was one thing against which he continually protested, it was expenditure on æsthetic grounds.
 MR. BENTINCK  expressed a desire for information. What was to be the nature of the monument, and who was to be the sculptor? When they saw the lamentable memorials erected to the memory of such men as Mr. Cobden, Sir George Cornewall Lewis, Mr. Thackeray, and others, they could not help feeling un easy as to the character of any proposed additions. Westminster Abbey was chokefull already; and the question really was, whether it would not be better to remove to a different site the memorials of all who were not actually buried within the Abbey precincts?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether (in reference to the Fourth Resolution of the 7th of May instant respecting  Regium Donum
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he cordially approved of the hon. and learned Baronet's (Sir Colman O'Loghen's) proposition, and should support it if it were pressed to a division, believing that the expense which might be entailed by the terms of the Motion would be as nothing compared with the gain of the hearts of a people. The Royal Family seldom visited the Black Country, and the great city of Manchester had been visited only once. The people there did not complain; but the enthusiasm with which Her Majesty's visits to those districts had been hailed showed what might be expected to follow in the case of Ireland.
 Mr. G. MORRIS , referring to the portion of the Vote applicable to Coastguard stations in Ireland, hoped that some improvement would be effected in these dwellings, the condition of which, in many instances upon the West coast of Ireland, was really disgraceful.
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, what he complained of was, that no portion of it seemed to be intended for the Coastguard stations in the West of Ireland.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the Ulster Canal had come into the possession of the Government in consequence of those interested in the Canal having failed to pay interest on the sums advanced to them by the Government. He regretted to say that the attempt to induce the Canal Company to complete the canal works had been so far unsuccessful.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said that a larger portion of this Vote would be applied to the purpose referred to by the hon. Member.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the Estimate had certainly been exceeded, but the Government had a strict eye on these works with a view to keeping down expenditure. The charge was undertaken because half the cost of County Courts in England is borne by the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  did not intend to represent the Vote as an "act of justice to Scotland."
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the Vole was taken for the purpose of proceeding with the buildings now in progress. He could not say what buildings would be constructed under the Vote. Negotiations had been going on for some time on the subject, and as the object was one of importance, and as the Vote was a reasonable one, he hoped the Committee would agree to it
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied that he would be very happy to give notice of the day when the Vote for the  Regium Donum
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, that the sums paid to the Inman Company for the mail service conducted between this country and New York were somewhat in excess of the sum to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded. It was not the case that the Inman Company had carried a greater weight of letters than the Cunard in the same period. The figures stood thus:—The Inman Company up to the end of March in the present year earned £6,160, and the Cunard Company, if the services performed by them were paid for at a similar rate, would have earned £7,423. The hon. Gentleman, in saying that the Cunard Company was subsidized at the rate of £80,000 a year should remember that was the sum paid for the service both ways. There should be a reduction of one-half from that
 343
 MR. JACOB BRIGHT  remarked that Owen's College in Manchester, was deserving of the consideration of the Committee, and when money was granted for this College in Glasgow, he must remind them that the College in Manchester had an equal claim upon them.
 MR. BOWEN  said, he claimed for Wales as pure a nationality as belonged to either Ireland or Scotland. Wales had no Royal palace within her border; but he could not claim for her a Royal residence on the ground of economy, seeing that the loyalty of the Welsh arose naturally, and did not require the presence of a body of troops.
 MR. BRADY  said, the question before the House was a very important one with regard to that other question of the pacification of Ireland and the maintenance of a spirit of loyalty among its people, if the people of this country complained when Her Majesty retired to some extent from public life, surely the people of Ireland, who never saw her at all, were fully justified in their anxiety for the erection of some Royal residence in that country in which Her Majesty might reside during some portion of the year.
 MR. FLOYER  said the hon. and gallant Gentleman must have forgotten that half a century at least before Burlington House was built Clarendon House and Dunkirk House had been erected far to the west of it. If it were a question between retaining Burlington House and pulling it down, there might be some reason for hesitation, for it was a building of considerable pretensions, of much interest, and of a character of which not another specimen could be found either in London or its vicinity,
 399
 MR. PIM , in seconding the Motion, said, he advocated the establishment of a Royal residence in Ireland not merely as an act of grace and kindly feeling from which the best results might be hoped for, but also as an act of justice and fair dealing, and yet not in any degree as a substitute for the remedial measures which had at various times received the attention of the House. The people of Ireland had a just claim to their share in the smiles of Royalty, and might appeal with confidence to those motives of public policy which were founded on the duties that a Sovereign owed to his subjects. It would
 352 353 354 355 356 noblesse oblige.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he did not admit that, because Aberdeen had obtained a Vote of public money, Glasgow ought to receive one also. The University of Glasgow was not, in the proper sense of the word, a University, but merely a College.
 MR. DILLWYN  asked whether that was to be the beginning of a system of subsidizing the Universities in all parts of the country?
 MR. DILLWYN  complained that the sum asked was in excess of the Estimate. The original Estimate having been £103,000, £118,000 had been voted already, and £25,000 was wanted this year.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he wished to know what use would be made of this Chapter House for which so much money was wanted?
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  also complained of the difficulty there would be of getting to the new buildings, and suggested that the different bodies interested should come to some arrangement for providing greater facilities of access.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he did not think that the answer given with respect to the competition was a satisfactory one. None of the eleven competitors had been successful. He ventured to say that there had been too much inclination of late years to make captivating plans, and he thought that the origin of that error was to be found in the choice of a captivating plan for the Houses of Parliament, which had greatly deceived the profession. The honest competing architects who exhibited their plans in Westminster Hall had been unjustly treated. The sum originally proposed to be spent on the Houses of Parliament was £750,000, and architects who honestly confined themselves within the prescribed limits of expense, and prepared their designs according to that Estimate, were placed at a disadvantage. Every architect who saw the plans said at once that the captivating and admirable design of Mr. Barry could not be executed for the amount proposed. He could only suppose that that plan was put forward for
 369 370
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, that he thought the Solicitor General had entirely misunderstood his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) in supposing it was his desire to raise objections, or to carp at any proposals made by the Government for the purpose of facilitating an early dissolution. On the contrary his right hon. Friend wished to be satisfied that the dissolution could betaken at an early period, and that desire was shared in by the majority of Members at his own side of the House. Their real object was to be satisfied that the prospect held out of a speedy dissolution was not an illusory one. The Solicitor General contended that under great pressure the register could be completed by the 20th of October, conceding that it could not be completed before. But if that were so, he (Sir Robert Collier) maintained that the new Parliament could not be called together sooner than thirty-five days from the date mentioned, which would bring them down to the end of November or beginning of December. Moreover, he ventured to think that the notion that a proclamation might be issued for the dissolution of Parliament some considerable time before the new constituencies were formed was a suggestion to which the learned Solicitor General would not adhere upon reflection. They knew perfectly well that the writs were issued almost immediately, some of them within three days of the dissolution, and it would be perfectly idle to dissolve Parliament unless they had existing constituencies. According to the Solicitor General, Parliament could not be dissolved till the 20th of October, which meant that the new Parliament could not meet, at the earliest moment, till the 25th of November. Then seven days must be allowed for the election of a Speaker and the transaction of other necessary preliminaries, which would take them into December before any real business could be transacted. But that certainly had not been the impression conveyed to his mind by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government when he spoke of their
 383 384 sine quâ non. 385
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he hoped the Motion would not be pressed. The Vote was for the benefit of the whole of the West of Scotland, and a great many Irish students, especially those intending to enter the medical profession, were educated at Glasgow University. The citizens of Glasgow had already subscribed almost as much as the Parliamentary Grant, and he believed they would eventually subscribe considerably more. £72,000 had been granted to the University of London.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that though English Members might sometimes be accused of not understanding the affairs
 358
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Scotch Reform Bill would be the first Order on Monday?
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If it is true that while the sum provided in the Estimates for the three Mail Services from Southampton and Queenstown to New York is £30,000, the Inman Company alone has earned during the first three months of 1868 at the rate of £22,000 per annum; that the steamers of that Company have in that period carried a greater weight of letters to America than those of the Cunard Company, subsidized at the rate of £80,000 per annum; and, that a special messenger has been sent to Washington by the British Post Office Authorities at the public expense to endeavour to negotiate a treaty fur mails to be carried from Liverpool alone without waiting for the result of the present trial services?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  objected to public buildings being erected in situations which had no approaches to them. He disapproved altogether of leaving the question of approaches in the hands of the Metropolitan Board of Works.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, Whether the Metropolitan Board of Works have made any provision on the exterior of the wall of the Thames Embankment to enable persons who may have fallen into the river and have succeeded in reaching the embankment wall to sustain themselves and be saved from drowning?
 MR. TITE , in reply, said, the matter had been considered by the Metropolitan Board, but they had failed altogether in contriving any thing such as that suggested in the Question of the hon. Gentleman. In extreme cases the tide rose to twenty-four feet, and in ordinary cases to eighteen feet. It was, therefore, impossible to affix to the exterior of the embankment wall a chain or anything which would enable persons to save themselves in any state of
 342
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  inquired, whether any public benefit whatever would be derived from this outlay, or was the money to be expended solely for the advantage of the Dean and Chapter? He had been told that this restoration would be a very elaborate thing, and he hoped the noble Lord would be able to explain what it was for. It was all very well to put their hands into their own pockets to gratify a peculiar taste; but it was a serious matter to put their hands deeply into the public purse for the purpose of decorating a fancy place like that at the cost of the nation.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  recommended the noble Lord to purchase whatever land would be required by the Government at once, and not in driblets.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that a number of his constituents in Bell Yard
 368
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said he had last year called attention to an item of £500 for "catching rats, inspecting fire-engines, and sweeping chimneys." This year the rats had disappeared, and all these items were put down under the head of "Miscellaneous Expenditure." He objected to this method of keeping accounts, as deceptive, and unworthy of a great Government.
 SIR CHARLES LANYON  said, he regretted that one of the largest competitions offered to the public had altogether failed, and he hoped that, in the interests of art, the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Government would come to a speedy determination on this important subject. It was due to the public as well as to the profession that the matter should be brought to a decision, otherwise it would be difficult to induce architects to compete on future occasions.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  rose to call attention to the absence of a permanent Royal residence in Ireland, and to move a Resolution on the subject. He said that in the Session of last November he gave notice that, when Parliament should re-assemble in February, he would move the Notice to which he now begged to call the attention of the House; but circumstances over which he had no control had prevented him from bringing it forward until that evening. He did not regret that, because in this, as in many other
 347 348 "That there was no nation under the sun who loved equal justice better than the Irish, or would rest better satisfied with the execution thereof, even against themselves, so that they might feel assured of the protection of the law when upon just cause they did desire it." 349 350 351
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  remarked, that the University of London had had a Member given to it, and there might be a contested election.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the land was not to be acquired for ornamental purposes, but for the absolute protection of the Palace of Westminster, and he, therefore, hoped the noble Lord would lose no time in securing and clearing it. If the hon. Member only took the trouble to walk to the end of the Palace, he would see a large collection of straw and hay there, which would be a cause of the greatest danger if a fire was to break out. He wished to know from the noble Lord whether St. Margaret's Church, which he and the noble Lord himself looked upon as a great disfigurement to Westminster Abbey, could not be taken down and re-built on the land which it was proposed to acquire. If he was not mistaken, the noble Lord had stated last year that it was desirable that St. Margaret's Church should be removed.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  corroborated this statement.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that it was not the Grant but the "theology" he objected to. He should withdraw the Motion, but he should take an opportunity of putting a question to the Lord Advocate on the subject.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that as it was important that the question should be answered, whether any portion of the Vote was to be devoted to theological teaching and as the Lord Advocate was not present, he would move that the Chairman report Progress.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  wished to know, if any part of the sum to be applied for this purpose would be expended in the building of houses for the theological Professors? If the hon. Gentleman could not answer that question he would move the postponements the Vote, especially as the Lord Advocate was not present.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  hoped "the act of justice to Scotland "would be emulated in reference to Ireland.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  observed that the sum now asked for was only part of an amount which had been sanctioned by Act of Parliament.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that in his early days he was nominated, without his own wish or knowledge, to the office of returning officer for a borough of 10,000 or 12,000 voters, and his experience on that occasion satisfied him that, in the larger boroughs, and with the new constituencies, the time allowed by the Solicitor General for the registration would not be be a day too long for a returning officer desirous of satisfying himself that the list was properly made out.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he was unwilling to trespass on the attention of the House, but he wished to express the great pleasure he derived from being able for once to agree with the hon. Baronet the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen). The proposition made by the hon. and learned Member was so evidently advantageous to Ireland that all must agree to it; and he for one was not disposed to allow hon. Members opposite to claim all the loyalty in the country. The present time was appropriate for bringing this subject forward, because it would be difficult for any private individual to follow the present Lord Lieutenant. Whenever the period should arrive, and he trusted it might be far distant, when the present Lord Lieutenant should resign a dignity
 357
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that this land was to be acquired for the purpose of making a decorative garden at the end of the Palace. He hoped that the freeholds would be purchased, as tenancy would be objectionable. But as this might be termed a fancy Vote, he hoped the Government would give directions that the rest of the land should be acquired as the interests fell in very gradually.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that some years ago, before either the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Alderman Lusk) or himself had come into Parliament, there had been a good deal of discussion on this subject, and it had been determined to vote £25,000 for restoring the Chapter House as a work of art. The present Vote was the annual instalment of that sum. That being so, he did not think it competent for hon. Members to enter on the subject now.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he rose to call attention to the manner in which the sites of public buildings were purchased. The practical result of the system was that the surveyors were restricted in the amount they had to spend, and the purchase of the land they had to deal with. The property was dealt with in sections, and as soon as section A was purchased section B was quadrupled in value. He thought it would be much better to vote the requisite sum and take the land at once, and suggested the propriety of postponing the Vote and bringing in a supplementary estimate.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he believed that the origin of the laws against lotteries was to be found in the fact that in the days of George III. there were Government lotteries, which were used as a means of revenue. They were, therefore, made a monopoly by the suppression of all others, and it was quite an afterthought to associate immorality with all lotteries. There; was an obvious distinction between public-house and fraudulent lotteries, and purely charitable lotteries that were conducted honestly and innocently. The latter were not confined to Roman Catholics, but were resorted to by Protestants of all denominations and for all kinds of purposes. Scarcely a bazaar was held without n raffle, the tickets for which were sold by young ladies to the visitors; and all these young ladies were liable to be declared rogues and vagabonds. The law ought to be either altered or repealed; but, if it were not, its enforcement was a matter in the discretion of the Attorney General. He had a clear rule to determine his course; If lotteries were held in public-houses, or for fraudulent purposes, or were frequented by disorderly persons then he might enforce the law; but when it was obvious that lotteries or raffles were for charitable purposes, and when there was not the slightest possibility of any fraud or disorder, then it was not the duty of the Attorney General to enforce the law. Only Roman Catholic lotteries had been prosecuted, and the reason was, not any partisanship on the part of the Government, but the activity of certain Protestant societies that persecuted the Roman Catholic Church. It was these put in motion the Attorney General, who sometimes felt it his duty to act at the instigation of these societies. He knew several cases in which, at the instance of these fanatical societies, notices had been sent issued by the Solicitor to the Treasury. The Attorney General ought to set his face against persons actuated by sectarian motives, and to exercise dis-
 390
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that Burlington House would be entirely spoilt by the addition of another story and an arcade. It had better be pulled down than thus disfigured. The proportions were now very beautiful, but the addition of another story would dwarf the basement. There were not so many correct structures in London that we could afford to spoil one of them. He regretted, too, that the other buildings which were to stand on the ground would not be in the same style.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  remarked that the noble Lord had not informed the
 395
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, that no Vote could be more properly granted by the House than a Vote to sustain the foundation of a great University. He was glad to see that the Scotch Members were united in supporting the Vote for the University foundation in Glasgow; and he trusted that when the First Lord of the Treasury proposed a University foundation for Ireland, in accordance with the feelings of the Irish people, the proposal would receive the unanimous support of the Scotch Members.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was pointing out that the Committee, as nominated, did not include a single English county Member, and urging the propriety of selecting one from each side of the House, when—
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that although he had put the Motion as a whole, yet its parts would afterwards be put separately. The hon. Member could not canvass the composition of the Committee until it had been agreed that a Committee should be appointed, and the names were put severally from the Chair.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, it would be invidious to object to the names of Members when they were submitted, but he would propose that the Committee should consist of seven Members.
 MR. BRIGHT : I desire that we may understand the precise meaning of the words—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the Boundaries of the following Boroughs, as laid down by the Boundary Commissioners, and to report what, if any, alteration should be made therein."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  replied that the Committee would have the latitude pointed out in the first part of the Question. The only point on which he was disposed to differ from the hon. Member was as to the Report not being final. He did not think it was meant that the consideration of the case of any borough should be postponed to a future period.
 MR. BRIGHT : I do not know what the right hon. Gentleman means by its being a final Report. Does the right hon. Gentleman mean that the House is to have no option afterwards but to adopt it? [Mr. GATHORNE HARDY: No.] Of course if they shall recommend that any borough shall remain as it now is, that would be a postponement for an indefinite period, and the Committee would be at liberty to make that recommendation.
 MR. HIBBERT  asked, whether the Committee would have power to give effect to the recommendations of the Commissioners in regard to those places the boundaries of which they would have contracted if they had not been prohibited from restricting any boundaries. They said that these places presented anomalies which could not be rectified in any other way. Salisbury was on the list, but Wilton was not, and as the former could not be enlarged without contracting the latter, there would be a difficulty in dealing with them. Again, Rochester and Chatham, and other places named by the Commissioners, were not in the list at all. Would it not be convenient if these cases were brought before the Committee?
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  seconded the Amendment, in order to insure that the Committee should have power to contract the limits of certain boroughs.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  suggested whether it should not he competent for the Committee to receive applications from boroughs which were not included in the list?
 MR. M. T. BASS  said, he was surprised
 429
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that if the town of Derby was content the Committee would no doubt be glad to be released from the duty of considering its boundary. With respect to the places referred to by the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert) there were no petitions or memorials from them; but there was every facility for dealing with them in the House itself, according to the recommendations of the Commissioners, who had reported all the facts, and therefore there was no occasion to refer them to the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the question was whether the Committee was to have the power to contract as well as to extend boundaries. He concluded the intention was, that they should have the power to contract the boundary of Wilton to the extent that they enlarged that of Salisbury. Would it not be better to include Wilton in the list?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that there were Motions and also petitions respecting those two places, and he had included Salisbury according to the principles which had been laid down. He was willing to include Wilton. It would be in the power of the Committee to recommend to the House the adoption of the boundaries recommended by the Commissioners, or to make better boundaries. With respect to Derby, it did not come under the rule laid down.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the proposition before the House was that the Committee should start from something. Now, what they would start from was the recommendations of boundaries by the Commission. Then power would be given to the Committee to make such recommendations as to them might seem fit, which meant that they might contract, enlarge, or alter. The words could not be made clearer, though they might be made less clear.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that as he had not got the Report before him, he wished to know whether the Commission in the case of Salisbury had laid down the boundaries, because the power of the Com-
 430
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he thought it would be absolutely necessary to include Wilton in the list. If Wilton were included it would be quite clear that the Committee would have the power of contraction as well as enlargement.
 MR. A. PEEL  asked whether the Boundary Committee would be enabled to curtail the existing limits of boroughs (other than those newly created), even though there had been in the Commissioners' Report no recommendation to that effect? He thought they ought to have this power. If, for instance, Leamington was not ultimately added to Warwick, as recommended by the Commissioners, it might still be very desirable to consider whether the present borough of Warwick should continue to include within its area so large a proportion of purely agricultural acres.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, there was no petition or memorial on the subject at all; and it was only those things which were really referred to the Committee that would be taken into consideration by them.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he thought that Derby should be omitted from the list.
 MR. YORKE  said, that no question of the contraction of boundaries ought to be entered into by the Committee; for if the Commissioners had obtained power to go into that question they would have had to inquire into the cases of a much larger number of boroughs than was proposed at present.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, when the question was discussed before he was under the impression that it was intended to refer to the Committee only such petitions sis had been presented to the House, and such memorials as had been laid before the Commissioners; but the proposal was now much wider, and therefore it would not be necessary to move the Amendment which he had put on the Paper. He wished, however, to ask what was intended to be included under the word "Papers?"
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he apprehended the noble Lord or any other hon. Member might send in a memorial if he thought proper, but it would be left to the discretion of the Committee to deal with the memorials as they might think heat. If they thought a memorial improperly sent in they might object to enter into the case to which it related.
 MR. A. F. EGERTON  said, he had received representations from many parties who wished to lay statements before the Committee.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that in the latter part of the Motion it was proposed that the Committee should be able to confer with the Boundary Commissioners, and those who had been employed under them. He thought the boroughs concerned and their representatives would be at a disadvantage if those gentlemen were to come before the Committee and defend the recommendations they had made. They all knew how stoutly gentlemen were apt to stand up in support of their own opinions,
 432
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would suggest, in order to meet the views of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), that these words should be added—"And to take further evidence if to them it shall seem fit."
 MR. NEATE  said, it would occasion great disappointment and failure if the public were not to have a  locus standi
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Committee were not bound to confer with the Commissioners or the Assistant Commissioners, but it was a power which was reserved to them if they wished to exercise it. And with regard to conferring with Members of the House, Committees had always that power, and were very willing to exercise it. Therefore to insert the words suggested would not be necessary.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he objected to the Committee conferring with the Commissioners and the Assistant Commissioners. He did not attribute the mistakes and errors which had occurred to the Commissioners themselves, but to the Assistant Commissioners, and unless hon. Members had an opportunity of answering them they would labour under a great disadvantage. So far as regarded Portsmouth, the Commissioners had decided contrary to the evidence. He had another objection to the course which had been pursued, and contended that the Prime Minister had no right to refuse to place the evidence before the House, for it was the property of the House and not of the Government. He suggested that one Member for each borough should have the opportunity of attending before the Committee and offering such explanations as he might consider necessary.
 MR. MONK  said, he would move, in accordance with the suggestion of the hon.
 433
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that, in order to make the matter quite clear, be should propose to add at the end of the clause after "the Commissioners and those employed under them," the words "or with the Members for such boroughs."
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT  suggested that the Members for the counties should also be consulted.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  suggested the addition of the words "or with such other persons as they may think fit."
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he hoped his right hon. Friend would not persevere with the addition he had proposed. The Committee could at all times confer with Members of the House; but an invidious distinction was drawn between borough and county Members by leaving out the latter.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would amend his proposal, which would run thus—" and with the Members of the Counties and Boroughs affected."
 MR. YORKE  said, he wished to move the following proviso—
 "Provided that they shall not entertain any question of the contraction of boundaries,"
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that the addition of the proposed proviso would defeat the object with which the Committee was to be appointed and nullify the inquiry.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he objected to the proviso and he thought that the hon. Member for Tewkesbury (Mr.
 434
 MR. NEWDEGATE  reminded the House that the majority of the English people lived in the counties, and it was hardly right that this Committee should be appointed without one single English county Member being upon it. He moved, therefore, that, in order to admit two county Members—one from each side of the House—that the number of the Committee be increased to seven. He would not presume to name them, but might suggest the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Locke King) and the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Howes).
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he hoped that the Government would oppose the Amendment. No doubt any Committee would do the work well; but what they wanted was to get through it rapidly, and he was sure that seven would make a much longer business of it than five.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he preferred five Members; but the point was one entirely for the consideration of the House.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, the object of the House must be to get a Committee composed of Members in whom the House had the greatest confidence, and it
 435
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Sir, I presume the question of the hon. Gentleman refers to the case of a convict named John Brophy  alias
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any decision has been arrived at with reference to the proposal of Sir Alexander Grant for placing the higher appointments of the Educational Service in the Bombay Presidency on a new footing?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman has very frankly placed this question upon a footing upon which at any rate it is easy for us all to approach it; but that only enhances our obligation to endeavour to give a decision according to the merits of the case. The right hon Gentleman began by observing very justly that we were all now agreed that in some way or other the claim of Scotland must be satisfied. I must, however, congratulate the right hon. Gentleman noon the progress that he has made in this respect; because last year he in this House treated the claim of Scotland as a claim only to be recognized provided the House was willing to increase its own numbers; and upon a memorable occasion in the North he repeated the same declaration. But the force of facts, and the evident justice of the claim of Scotland, have placed this matter beyond dispute in the mind of the right hon. Gentleman. And he has also made another great advance, because, although the right hon. Gentleman not unnaturally made an ingenious argument in favour of increasing the numbers of the House, he ended very fairly by admitting that the opinion of the House was adverse to him, and therefore he would consider that question also as settled. That is another step achieved. The claim of Scotland is to be satisfied, and it is to be satisfied otherwise than by an addition to the aggregate numbers of this House. I do not say one word upon the subject of the aggregate numbers—although I certainly differ very strongly from the right hon. Gentleman—simply because that is not a question that is practically before the House. The right hon. Gentleman expressed in mild terms, involving nothing unfair or inequitable, his preference for the Motion made by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley) rather than that of my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr.
 456 457
 MR. YORKE  next rose, but being met with the same manifestations of impatience.
 SIR HENRY EDWARDS , who rose amidst loud calls for a division, regretted that, although he had risen on no less than six occasions at an earlier stage of the debate, and at a time when the House was less impatient, he had not been fortunate enough, to catch the Speaker's eye. He promised, however, to be very brief if permitted to address the House. He had the honour to represent one of the oldest boroughs in the kingdom, which had returned Members to Parliament almost from time immemorial; and he should consider himself guilty of a gross dereliction of duty to his constituency if he gave a silent vote on this all-important occasion. He altogether objected to any infringement of the English Act of last Session. It had been settled by the Legislature, and generally approved by the country; and it was most unfair and impolitic to attempt by any political jugglery, and by a side-wind, to re-open a question which, by general consent so often expressed in debate last year, was to continue undisturbed on our statute books for at least a quarter of a century. Was it then fair that it should be broken in upon merely to serve the purpose of carrying out the views of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire? who, not satisfied with having opposed the Reform Bill most strenuously, and even factiously, at every stage of its progress last year, was now endeavouring, by the aid of his party, to make it imperative upon the Government to abandon their measures of Parliamentary Reform altogether, in order that he (Mr. Gladstone) might drive the Prime Minister from Office and pluck the laurels from the brow of one who, for his political services on the question of Reform alone—independent of other considerations—is so justly entitled to the everlasting gratitude of his fellow-countrymen. As the borough he represented was placed by his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire on the condemned list to lose one representative, he must say the case is one of peculiar hardship on several
 460
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had only risen to point out that there was a great distinction between the two proposals. If they adopted the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), the effect would be that they would disfranchise a great number of persons in boroughs which they pledged themselves to maintain last year. The borough of Thetford, for example, was deprived of one of its Members, but it received an assurance that its 800 electors would continue to return one representative. The Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose would disfranchise 700 of these electors, while on the other hand the Amendment of the hon. Baronet would not disfranchise any portion of the electors, but only diminish the weight of the voters in returning Members to that House.
 MR. YORKE  proceeded with his speech, stating that, having to choose between two propositions, he had come to the conclusion that it was his duty to vote with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), on the ground that the Reform Act of last year had deprived the small boroughs
 459
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that, regard being had to revenue and population, Scotland ought to have twenty-five additional Members; but the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren's) Resolution demanded, not that so many new Members should be given to Scotland, but that, at all events, some approximation should be made, as respects Scotland, between the population, the revenue, and the representation. In the boroughs which the Committee had been empowered to disfranchise ten Members were returned by 3,088 electors, while the city of Aberdeen, with its 4,000 electors, had only one Member. That was a fact which in itself was an answer to those who said there were no anomalies in the representation of Scotland. What he wanted was that, with regard to Scotland, there should be the same measure of justice dealt out as was given to the English people.
 MR. BRIGHT : I put it to both sides of the House whether we have not generally found the Scotch Members to be right on matters relating to their own country? They have taken the very wise plan, of course, of coming to agreement upon those things which they think are fitting to be applied to their part of the United Kingdom. The House of Commons has generally been very willing to deal liberally with them, and to allow them to have their own way; and I believe that is much the easiest way of managing them, or allowing them to manage us. The noble Lord (Lord John Browne), who comes from Ireland, is very much aggrieved because, under this proposition, you will have something very
 478 s. s.
 MR. KINNAIRD  asked whether it was usual to proceed with the Estimates at Eleven o'clock? and suggested that, as it had been expected the whole night would be devoted to the Scotch Reform Bill, some other Scotch Bills on the Paper should be forwarded. He moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that Scotch Members on the opposite side of the House were not quite consistent. Early in the evening they had been anxious that Scotland should be regarded as an integral part of the Empire, but the hon. Member for Perth now wished Scotland to be treated as altogether distinct, and general Business to be stopped, for fear that the interests of Scotland should not be attended to. That the Scotch Reform Bill had not occupied the whole night was no reason for not proceeding with Supply.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that ten Scotch Bills had been put in the Paper for that night, and he wished to know whether those Bills would be proceeded with. He would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to know whether the Attorney General had any further explanation to give respecting the duties of the Clerks of Assize? At present, after the explanation given by the hon. and learned Gentleman on a former evening, and which he heard with pain, he thought that these officers did not discharge duties for which a salary of £1,000 a year was requisite, and that it was incumbent on the Treasury to make inquiry into the salaries of all the offices in this Vote.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that all he stated the other night was that it was not necessary that a Clerk of Assize should be either a barrister or a solicitor. He would not go at any length into the duties of a Clerk of Assize; but it was absolutely necessary that there should be on every circuit officers to perform duties connected with the administration of justice. He had himself had to sit as a Commis-
 496
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite satisfactory from his point of view. The Attorney General had shown very clearly that some knowledge of routine and a certain aptitude of organization were required from Clerks of Assize, but it appeared to him (Mr. Childers) to be then undesirable that, taking into account the rates of salary in other departments of the Civil Service, £1,000 would be an excessive salary. He did not complain of Mr. Bovill's appointment, but if a gentleman who a year ago was in a dragoon regiment could in a few months qualify himself for professional duties of this kind, it would be very unfair to the Civil Service generally, that the present salaries should be maintained. He would therefore press the question which he had addressed to the Treasury—namely, whether they would undertake that the salaries of these officers should be re-considered by the Treasury?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the proposal of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Childers) that the Treasury should re-consider the salary of these officers with reference to the duties they were called upon to discharge, was deserving of attention. Since the present Government came into Office their attention had not been called to this subject, but he had no hesitation in saying that the matter should be properly inquired into.
 THE CHAIRMAN  intimated that this could not be done.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he felt so strongly that it was a gross abuse on the part of the Chief Justice of the Common
 497
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, this was a very harsh proposal in reference to this particular appointment. The question in regard to this salary had only been brought under the notice of the Treasury during the last few days, and it had been reserved as a fit subject for consideration. At the same time, they should take into consideration the way these appointments had been made from time immemorial.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE : I cannot agree that the appointment of Clerks of Assize ought to be made without some legal knowledge on the part of the person appointed. The question is not one of salary, but one of qualification, £1,000 a year is not too much if the office is properly filled; but the question is, whether it is properly filled? Send us to the country if you dare. Send us to the country, but do not threaten us with dissolution, and perpetrate your jobs. ["Divide, divide! "] An hon. Gentleman cries "Divide, divide;" perhaps he is looking out for a Clerkship of Assize.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would suggest to the Government that, if the matter was still under their consideration, a postponement of the Vote might be proper and convenient. It would be more satisfactory to the Committee to have the final judgment of Government upon it, and thus approach the consideration of it with more advantage. But, if the Government was unwilling to do this, he must recommend his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) to withdraw his Motion. He would submit to his hon. Friend that to disallow the entire salary of the Gentleman in question was the severest condemnation, short of a direct Resolution of the House, that could possibly be passed upon his appointment; and the House was
 498 bonâ fide
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed that, when a Vote had been proposed, it could not be postponed; but he desired it to be clearly understood that he intended that a full inquiry should be made into the present question, and not merely into this particular case. He also learned that the salary of Mr. Bovill had got to be settled by the Treasury; it would be settled upon a fair and just basis, and it would not at all follow, because the sum asked for was voted, that it would be all expended in the salary. But, after this pledge given by the Government, he trusted that the Committee would not take the strong step suggested by the hon. Member for Brighton. In regard to the appointment, he wished to say a few words in defence of Chief Justice Bovill, with whom he had sat for many years in that House, and for whom he and many others had a great personal regard. The Chief Justice had been singled out in a manner hardly fair. It was well known that, for a long series of years past, distinguished members of the Bar had been accustomed to accept high judicial positions, the emoluments of which were much less than those they were earning at the Bar—influenced partly by the knowledge that there would be a certain amount of patronage at their disposal. He was not defending the system, but only stating what it was. For many years he believed that these appointments had been filled either by the sons or the near relatives of the Chief Justice. The practice might be well done away with; but no one could deny that it existed, and that the present appointment was the result of that practice, and it ought not to be charged upon the individual; though it would be most desirable that it should be understood for the future that appointments of this de-
 499
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that, as neither the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) nor the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) had made any inquiry as to the duties of these officers while they were at the Treasury, the zeal with which they now condemned the appointments was, to say the least, very curious. In his opinion, no blame attached to the Lord Chief Justice for following a practice which had evidently been approved by those hon. Members.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that if, during the eight or nine months that he was Secretary of the Treasury, he had ascertained the duty, and compared it with the salary, of every officer of the Government, he must have been a man of superhuman power. He, however, never imagined that Clerkships of Assize were offices which did not require to be filled by persons of considerable legal attainments. If the Government were unwilling to postpone the Vote, he trusted that the Committee would accept the promise of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he had not the least doubt the Treasury would faithfully perform. At the same time, he trusted that the House would never for a moment admit that patronage vested in any person in the position of a Judge, was something which was to be looked upon as property, and for which, if he was deprived of it, he was entitled, in some respect or other, to compensation. Any such idea was expressly excluded by a clause of the Act of Parlia-which regulates the offices of Associate and Clerk of Assize.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he looked upon the legal profession as one of the safeguards of the Constitution, and if it were to go forth to the world that appointments of this description were to be made a slur would be cast upon the profession.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he regretted that notwithstanding the appeals which had been made to him by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), and by the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), he could not withdraw his Motion. He did not wish to raise a general question as to the revision of the salaries of clerks, whom he had no reason to believe overpaid. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire had stated that the Amendment, if
 500
 MR. HIBBERT  regretted that after the assurance of the Chancellor of the Exchequer the Amendment had not been withdrawn. He thought it would be much better that the House should lay down some rule that no person should in future be appointed to the office in question who was not of a certain standing at the bar, or a solicitor.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, he wished to know whether any complaint had been made of any mischief arising out of this appointment? If an improper appointment had been made no doubt notice ought to be taken of it by the House, but he did not think that the present Amendment was the most dignified form. He was rather surprised to hear from the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckinghamshire (Sir Harry Verney), that a gentleman who had been engaged in the profession to which he (Sir Harry Verney) had formerly belonged was incapable of performing the duties of Clerk of Assize. All he could make out from the present debate was, that a gentleman blessed with a legal education was everything that was good, while there was nothing but inefficiency to be expected from a civilian or a military officer.
 MR. CLAY  said, that the hon. Member for Brighton had asked the Committee to pass a severe censure on the Chief Justice, and he (Mr. Clay) was therefore anxious to say that, entertaining a high respect for the Chief Justice—which he believed was shared by all who knew him—he hoped the Amendment would not be pressed. If it was, very few Members, he believed, would vote for it. If there was any fault it lay not with the Chief Justice but with that House, which allowed highly-paid places to exist with very slender duties. As long as that was so, they might be sure that those who held the patronage would appoint their own relations. He thought the proposition made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer the more satisfactory settlement; it would save more money, and without selecting one instance, which was not worse than the others, would put the whole upon such a footing as was worthy of the House of Commons.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Brighton would divide the Committee on his Motion.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he would remind the Committee that two or three years ago an inquiry was instituted in respect of the Common Law Fee Fund, and it was shown that two previous Chief Justices had appointed their sons to an office relative to the acknowledgments of married women—from which they derived an income of £3,000 a year; and one of them had not been near his office for the previous four years. The House had not however interfered in the matter. Surely this was a justification for the appointment made by the Chief Justice.
 MR. WATKIN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  drew attention to the item in the Vote which had reference to the charge for Judges' lodgings. The present arrangement with regard to Judges' lodgings was very unsatisfactory. The sheriff find to pay for the lodgings in advance, and it was in the power of a Judge to fine a sheriff if everything was not to his taste. The money was ultimately paid by the Treasury. He thought it would be as well that the Treasury should pay it in the first instance.
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to call the attention of the Government to the necessity for the appointment of an officer to conduct criminal prosecutions. An end ought to be put to the present system by which they were left in the hands of the police.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said,
that the matter adverted to by the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. D. Griffith) was
 502
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, there had been an increase in this item of £352,685, and he should like to know how that occurred. In Ireland the expense of the Court-houses was defrayed out of the rates; and he could not understand why in England the expenditure for works and purchase of sites should be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that a large portion of the money was re-paid to the Exchequer in the shape of fees. The increase in the Vote was mainly occasioned by new Courts in various places. It was impossible to resist the applications made from time to time for new Courts.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  asked if it was fair that the whole expense of these Courts should be defrayed out of the Consolidated Fund, when one-half of the expense of the Sheriffs' Courts in Scotland came out of the rates, as was mentioned a night or two ago?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said that the Sheriffs' Courts in Scotland were used indiscriminately for civil suits and the administration of criminal justice, while in England the Courts for administration of criminal justice were provided for out of local rates.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, that in the country the expenses of the Police Courts were defrayed out of the rates. In London they came out of the Consolidated Fund. He did not see why the metropolis should not bear Borne portion of the charge.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  called attention to the charges for the constabulary in Ireland. He did not see, considering that the population in the metropolis was about half that of Ireland, that the proportion was too much. It was really impossible to levy more money in the metropolis. The whole of the police charge of the metropolis was not charged on the Consolidated Fund; and many of the duties performed by the metropolitan police were not of a local, but of an Imperial character.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that one item of increase in the Vote was for improving the Police Courts of London, which everybody admitted were in a wretched state. It rested with the Treasury and the Home Office to decide when the police courts required to be re-built; and anyone who would take the trouble of looking into those Courts would admit that they were not such buildings as they ought to be. Although the sum was charged in a different manner, the fact really was that the proportion charged for the metropolis was just the same as in other parts of the country.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  then moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, Progress could be reported when they came to an unopposed Vote.
 MR. AYRTON  inquired when the Bill for the re-organization of the police system was to be introduced?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that he had given notice of the Bill, and proposed to bring it in on Thursday.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he objected
 504
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he had on a former occasion given as much explanation as was in his power. The police were on the spot, but they did not anticipate the particular mode that was adopted for blowing down the prison wall. They were under the impression that the wall would be blown up from below, and took precautions against that, but not against the method that was actually adopted. They were more accustomed to the sight of barrels of beer than barrels of gunpowder, and thinking it was a barrel of beer that was placed against the wall they took no steps to remove it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must remind the Committee they were very backward with Supply this year, and he hoped, as there was then a good attendance in the House, they would be allowed to take a few more Votes that night. If the Committee was adjourned they must sit later to make up the time.
 MR. WATKIN  said, the Secretary of State had appealed to the Committee to wait till a Vote was reached which was opposed.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, there were other measures of the Government on the night's Paper; and he would suggest that Progress should be reported after this Vote was agreed to.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped that no more convicts would be sent to Gibraltar. It was an extravagant thing to send convicts there, and it was a bad place to send them to. The convict establishment there was bad in point of discipline.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that a reduced Estimate had been received from Gibraltar since the general Estimates were
 505
 MR. CHILDERS  objected to sending convicts to Gibraltar at all. The labour of convicts was required at home.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, there had been a demand from Gibraltar for convicts to be employed on the extensive works there, and he was not aware that the labour of additional convicts was required at home.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the convicts were sent out to Gibraltar and ultimately sent home again, and the process was most expensive.
 THE CHAIRMAN  read the Question in the usual way.
 MR. BRIGHT : I cannot, Sir, join in the tumultuous expression of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and I only rise for the purpose of saying I regret that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government was not present during much of this discussion. I am not blaming the right hon. Gentleman in the least; I was only expressing my regret, because I think that if he had heard the discussion it would have led him to this conclusion, that there really was no necessity for an obstinate persistence in the principle with regard to rating that was contained in the Bill. He would have found that there was a remarkable unanimity amongst Scotch Members in favour of the proposition that has been carried by a majority of 22. I would venture to suggest to hon. Gentlemen opposite, who do not appear to agree with me, that when in this House we have, when treating of a Scotch or Irish Bill, an expression of the honest and settled conviction of the great majority of the representatives of that part of the country, we should do wisely to pay great attention to that expression, unless it asks us to do something absolutely injurious and immoral. I am sure the right hon. Gentleman and his Friends opposite will see from what I am saying that I am not interposing any difficulty in his way. I think it would be unfortunate if the right hon. Gentleman should find himself under the necessity of insisting in this Bill upon a principle which was not found to be beneficial in the English Bill. We know that Prime Ministers and great Statesmen, however eminent, have opportunities of learning and changing their opinions, and as the principle of no disfranchisement was given up in Ireland, it has now by the vote of to-night, and the consent of the right
 486
 MR. GILPIN  said, he desired to recall the attention of the Committee to the question really before it. The question was not whether the Government were doing wisely or unwisely in retaining their seats, whether they were prepared to go to the country, whether the Irish Church was a great question, or whether the right hon.
 490
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that his sympathies and prejudices on this occasion were
 494
 MR. GLADSTONE  asked what arrangement the Government proposed to make with respect to the course of Business?
 MR. GLADSTONE  inquired what Business would be taken on Thursday?
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the figure was put at £10 to make the franchise the same as that in the English Act.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had taken a discreet course, and he hoped the enthusiastic Gentlemen opposite would allow him to persevere in it. He must remind the Committee that the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane), who seemed so very hot upon the subject, had not been present during the discussion. [Mr. BAILLIE COCHRANE: I beg pardon, I was here.] The hon. Member seemed not to be aware that the Motion was brought forward by him (Mr. Bouverie), after due deliberation
 487
 MR. BOUVERIE  next moved to insert in place of the sections omitted the words—
 "Is and has been for a period of not less than twelve months next preceding the last day of July an inhabitant occupier as a lodger of part of any dwelling-house, such part being of the annual value of £10 or upwards."
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the clause proposed to introduce into Scotland, for the first time, the payment of poor rates as a condition for getting on the register. They all knew that, with reference to the English Reform Bill of last year, there was considerable discussion on the question of payment of poor rates; and that topic was not then considered by the House for the first time, because the Reform Act of 1832 enacted that no occupier of a dwelling-house in a borough above £10 should be put on the register of voters who had not paid his poor rates on the 6th of January. Great objection was entertained in Scotland to the proposition that in that country the payment of poor rates should be made a qualification for getting on the register. The payment of poor rates was altogether irrelevant to the question of the electoral franchise. In Scotland the Poor Law was administered by parochial Boards, who owed their appointment portly to property and partly to election, and had the power of exempting not only persons but whole classes from the payment of poor rate. The practice had been to exempt the classes who paid under a certain amount of rent; besides which there were many parishes in Scotland in which there was no poor rate at all. In the borough of Greenock there was no rating of houses, and therefore there could be no rateable proprietor or occupier who could claim a vote under this clause. It was most undesirable to introduce this new element for the first time into Scotch practice. As a qualification for a vote there was no charm or merit in a man paying a poor rate. What they wanted to ascertain was whether the occupant of a dwelling-house was capable of discharging the duties of a voter, and to ask on such a matter whether he paid poor rates was to ask a question altogether irrelevant. It would, no doubt, be urged,
 474
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he rose merely for the purpose of saying that he thought the Government had exercised a wise discretion, and he cordially approved the course they had taken in asking for time to consider the very grave position in which they were at present placed. He was anxious, if the House would pardon him, to say a few words on this occasion, because he had recently given expression to opinions which he knew had caused pain to some whom he was sorry to have offended, and some dissatisfaction to those whom he had the honour to represent. He had taken occasion in a recent debate to say that he disapproved the conduct of Her Majesty's Government in not having resigned on their defeat upon the question of the Irish Church. If, in the expression of such an opinion, he had given pain to any Member of Her Majesty's Government, he was extremely sorry; but he had spoken upon public grounds, and he appealed to recent events for his justification. Long habit and training in that House had inclined him to take a constitutional view of great questions, and he maintained now what he had said then,—that under the circumstances of a great defeat, confirmed by a subsequent vote with an increased majority, the duty of any Government, formed no matter how, could not be evaded, either with credit to themselves or advantage to the country. He had not spoken without thought. He knew at the time that there were great and difficult questions coming on for decision even in the short time the present House of Commons seemed dis-
 488
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, that he believed it was the custom in England when a criminal was about to be sentenced, that he should be asked whether he had anything to say why sentence should not be passed upon him—and as, perhaps, the only criminality of which he was guilty, was being the representative of what an hon. Member called a "miserable pocket-borough," which bad sent Members to Parliament for 800 years, he trusted that be might be permitted to say a few words for it. In those 800 years no doubt civilization had made great progress; but it had been said that history repents itself, and it had done so in the present case. About 800 years ago there were in the North two nations called the Picts and the Scots, and history said that the Scots after vanquishing the Picts, gave trouble to their neighbours on the southern side of the Tweed. They harried the lands, they invested the towns, they did all the damage they could to the Southrons; and he was sorry to say things were no better now—they were even worse; because, not satisfied with ravaging a narrow district on the one side of the Tweed, they had come down to the southern coast of this country, circumvented the small towns, and wished to kidnap the Members of these unfortunate towns and take them back to the wild North to use for their own purposes. Now, was such a step absolutely called for? The Prime Minister, in a remarkable speech upon a remarkable occasion at Edinburgh, said he saw no reason why there should be any disfranchisement of the small boroughs; and he could not think that a person of such mature judgment would have passed such an opinion as that unless there had been a good deal in it. He wished to ask with every respect and consideration for hon. Gentlemen who represented places north of the Tweed, whether, if it were well to take away Members from the small boroughs in England, were there not towns of greater importance in
 451
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, that the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) had suggested that they should take the plain common sense view of the question; and that was exactly what he himself wished to do. In England and in Ireland a man lost his vote unless he paid his rate; and he did not see why the same rule should not he applied in Scotland. It seemed to be a very reasonable provision; and if it were struck out of that Bill it would be impossible to maintain it in England or Ireland. If that clause were re-
 477
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied, that Irish cattle were in every respect on the same footing as English cattle. English cattle had no privileges which Irish cattle did not enjoy. As to French and Spanish cattle no privileges had been extended to them which were not possessed by English and Irish cattle.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the Order in Council of Saturday last had been so framed that it applied to the whole line of coast from the North Foreland to the South and West round to the Mull of Cantire, including Glasgow. The reason of this was that towns on this coast had in former years drawn their foreign supplies only from Normandy, Brittany, Spain, or Portugal. The towns, on the other hand, to the north of the North Foreland had in former years drawn their supplies from Holland and the Baltic provinces. The French and Spanish trades were not natural to them. Besides, as they had no cattle ships which plied exclusively to Spain, they could not fulfill the required conditions or enter into the bond which
 425
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied, that the Order in Council passed on Saturday last had been so framed as to meet the case of the hon. and learned Member, and to include Plymouth in the privilege. He would explain the Order more fully in reply to the Question of which the hon. Member for Cashel had given Notice.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he thought there was something ungenerous in the present discussion. Hon. Members had risen on each side of the House to say who should and who should not be sacrificed. He deeply regretted that the moderate proposal of the First Minister of the Crown had not been acceded to. There need then have been no question of sacrifice. He did not understand last year that the right hon. Member for South Lancashire objected to increasing the number of Members of the House indeed, he thought the right hon. Gentleman accepted the proposal with the second reading of the English Reform Bill. ["No, no !"] He did not see on what principle the objection was made. There was no ground for supposing that the adoption of such a measure would lead to similar demands year after year, and the question of this very moderate addition was introduced at a time when they were proposing to build a new House, which would accommodate something like 144 more Members. A great principle laid down in the Bill of last year would be entirely set aside if the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) were accepted. If the House were to accept one of the two proposals now before them that of the hon. Baronet (Sir Rainald Knightley) seemed much the more reasonable. He felt a double interest on this matter, as a representative of one
 450
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, as one of the independent Members of the House, he must express his satisfaction at the decision come to by the Prime Minister. No doubt it was excessively disagreeable to the hon. Gentleman opposite. No doubt he desired to come down to the House night after night and support every piece of factious opposition ingenuity could suggest. Was the Government to submit to such treatment? If Lord Derby had remained in Office, the factious opposition of the last four weeks would have had no existence; but immediately the right hon. Gentleman came into power an opposition was organized for the purpose of ousting him from Office. He perfectly understood the annoyance of hon. Gentlemen opposite at the decision of the Government; but at the same time he thought that that decision was most conducive to the interests of the country.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  would be very glad of some direction from the Speaker, or from any other quarter, as to where they stood and what they were engaged in. They were going into Committee on the Scotch Reform Bill, and it seemed to him that the Instruction which had been carried amounted to this—that there should be a provision in the Scotch Reform Bill to upset a part of the English Bill passed last year. That measure was to have been the conclusion of long fighting; it was to give satisfaction to both sides of the House; it was not the Bill of the Government or of the Opposition; it was the Bill of the whole House; it was a Bill, so we were told, based on certain principles, and among them was the preservation for England of its existing number of representatives, and the non-extinction of any centre of representation; but tonight in all these respects the English Re-
 468
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am glad to see that there is one point upon which the House seems now to be agreed—namely, that the representation of Scotland should be increased. At other times and in other Sessions I have heard controversies upon this subject; but on both sides it is now agreed that an increased representation of Scotland is desirable. Well, then, the whole question that now arises is how that increase is to be effected. There are some who are against entirely abolishing the representation of boroughs. They think it is wise that the representation should he distributed generally over the country; they think that if you merely represent numbers and property, located in places particularly flourishing, yon may occasion a great monotony of representation, and that the varied interests which exist in an ancient country like this will not be ade
 452 453 454 455
 MR. DISRAELI  rose, but was called to Order, as the Chairman had not read the Question before the House.
 MR. DISRAELI : On Thursday we shall proceed with the Corrupt Practices Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI  replied that the Scotch Reform Bill would be fixed for Monday next.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rose some time back, but was anticipated by the learned Lord Advocate, to say that the House has come to a very important decision with regard to this Bill. There was a very anxious desire on the part of Her Majesty's
 485
 MR. SCHREIBER : I had not the advantage of hearing the speech of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren); but, on my return to the House, I am told that, not content with the vote to which we have just come, he is already like "Oliver, asking for more." I therefore, Sir, as an English Member, representing one of the largest towns that returns a single Member to this House, take the earliest opportunity of informing the hon. Gentleman that there are those among us who do not regard the late transfer of seats with absolute equanimity. We acquiesce in it, of course, for we have no option; but we feel that we have anomalies of our own which call aloud for redress; and we say that, if we are to have anymore "charity" in this matter, it ought to be that "charity which begins at home," We hope, therefore, that for the present we shall have no more of these forays over the border. Why, Sir, I hold in my hand a list of twenty-three English boroughs, each of them returning two Members to
 470
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  rose to Order. He wished to ask whether, when an important debate like this was going on, hon. Members were to be allowed to assemble at the Bar and show their opposition by preventing a Member from being heard?
 MR. REARDEN : As that is the case I will not now trouble the House, but I will take another opportunity of bringing the subject forward.
 MR. REARDEN  said, he apprehended that he would now be in Order to proceed with his Motion, the effect of which was, that with a view to an equitable representation of the entire people, the United Kingdom should be divided into 720 equal electoral districts, and that one Member should be elected for each such district, and that Scotland be not entitled to her seventy-five Members until Ireland had received her 145 Members.
 MR. REARDEN : Am I at liberty to move the latter part of the Amendment?
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that by the Reform Act of 1832 a different rule was established in Scotland to that applied to England; and why, he would ask, should that rule be altered? To do so in the way proposed would be to make this a disfranchising measure; and what had Scotland done to deserve that punishment? They ought to take the real valuation of property as the basis for the franchise, and not the rating of it. An Act had been passed in 1854 for establishing a system of valuation greatly superior to that which existed in any other part of the United Kingdom. An officer was appointed in each county and burgh to make a personal valuation of all the property in his district. By this Bill they were asked to give a man a £12 franchise by rating in the counties; but why should they give it by rating, when they had the real rent itself? The rating was a mere deterioration of the value of the rent. There was no poor rate at present in some of the counties and burghs of Scotland, and it would be for the Lord Advocate to say why there should be one now. To carry this Bill into effect as it stood large expense would have to be incurred, and it would prove a vexatious, troublesome, and unworkable measure. Why should they undo the simple, common sense rule existing at the present time? He thought it was proposed by the Bill to turn a plain, common sense system into an artificial system, in favour of which no good argument could be adduced.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that, as he did not wish to prevent the House from going into Committee that night, he begged to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he believed the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for South Northamptonshire would on the whole work best. The very small boroughs would certainly be disfranchised on a much more extensive scale at no distant date.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he rose to move the Amendment of which he had given Notice. He thought it right to bring this question forward, notwithstanding the division which had just taken place, because it was in no sense a division in which Scotland was more mixed up than was Ireland. The question which had been just decided was not a party question, and he repudiated the idea that he brought this Motion before the House in any party spirit. He would be brief in stating his views to the House. It had been thrown out in the course of the debate that, even if the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) were carried, it did not follow that the Members thus obtained should be given to Scotland, Now, what he undertook to show was this—that even if the ten Members now at the disposal of the House were given to Scotland without qualification or limitation, they would be far too few to meet the just claims of Scotland. It had been proved a short time since by the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) that one class of English constituencies had, on an average, a Member for 36,000 voters, while another class had only a Member for 40,000 or 46,000 voters. But what was the case with Scotland? Why, that the largest county constituency they were about to enfranchise had 199,000 inhabitants, and only one Member, while the smallest had 107,000, and but one Member. He would not go into general statistics, but wished to state a few facts which were of great importance in considering the present question. A Return recently made showed that Scotland contributed to the purse of the Chancellor of the Exchequer £8,289,000 annually, while Ireland contributed to the same purse only £6,300,000. The sums, however, voted during the same year for Scotch purposes amounted to only £552,000, while the sums voted for Ireland amounted to £2,250,000. In other words, while Scotland paid 35 per cent more to the National Exchequer than Ireland did, Ireland got 400 per cent more out of the Exchequer than Scotland. Surely, it could not be contended that the people of Scotland were to be mere hewers
 465 466
 MR. ELLICE  said, if they adopted the rule of rating, they would introduce into Scotland great confusion. There were the utmost possible inequalities in the system of rating. Some time since he had moved for certain Returns relating to that subject, and he was very much astonished on getting these Returns to find that there appeared to be a strange uniformity in the
 476
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that the Return which the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) had quoted was not correct, so far as it related to the revenue derived from Ireland. The slightest examination of that Return would show that the revenue of Ireland was stated incorrectly. There was not less than from £1,500,000 to £2,000,000 of revenue paid by Ireland into the Imperial Exchequer which was not credited to Ireland. It was well known, for instance, that the article of sugar paid duty in Scotland, but when imported into Ireland from that country the tax was actually paid by the Irish consumers. He had often endeavoured to obtain a correct Return of the revenue paid by Ireland, but he had never succeeded in getting it. He protested, therefore against the entire basis on which
 467
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that, in consequence of the Question of the hon. Baronet, he had looked into the Report of the Registrar General, and found that the passage referred to was there. He freely owned, however, that he was entirely uninformed on the subject, and was unable to say whether there was any evidence of the existence of the "zymotic element," or whether it was accepted as a scientific truth.
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, By whom the legal business in Ireland of the Customs and Merchant Shipping Department of the Board of Trade is conducted, since the removal from Ireland of the late; Solicitor to the Board of Customs?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that for some time past the business of the Department had been conducted by a clerk in correspondence with head quarters in London. The clerk was now about to be withdrawn, as the business had not increased. There would be no difficulty, however, in conducting the business in the Solicitor's office in London, but local attorneys would be employed in prosecutions.
 MR. TREVELYAN  said, he wished to ask, Whether the restrictions on the importation of Cattle from Spain and Portugal to the Ports of Liverpool and Southampton having been removed, these restrictions will be continued against such importation to the Port of North Shields?
 MR. G. YOUNG  said, the 3rd section of the 3rd clause—every householder to be entitled to a vote who "has been rated to all rates, if any, made for the relief of the poor"—seemed to him altogether superfluous and meaningless inasmuch as the 16th clause amounted to a distinct and imperative provision that each dwelling-house in Scotland should be separately valued and assessed to the poor rate. The real force was in the 4th section, the effect of which was that a man should be disqualified in case he failed to pay his rates. According to the law of Scotland the parochial authorities had power to exempt occupiers from the half of the rating, for which proportion only they were liable in the case of houses under £4 in value. The operation of the 4th section would be to disqualify every person exempted from the payment of rates, unless for political or other purposes those rates were paid for him. If this was to be the effect of the clause it would be most mischievous. For his own part he had never been able to see why the fact of being in arrear a few shillings to the rate collector should operate to deprive a man of his right to vote. An arrear of a few shillings in this rate was sufficient for this purpose, yet a man might owe £20 to his baker or butcher without any political consequences ensuing.
 MR. G. YOUNG  said, he was surprised to hear a complaint from a Member of the Government that a fixed limit of rental had not been proposed as a substitute for rating. He had supposed that if there was one thing to which hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite had a decided objection, it was to what they characterized as a "hard and fast" line. They had themselves decided in favour of another line, which he would characterize as a fast and loose line. The Government, though repudiating a hard and fast line for England, as a matter of principle, had adopted it for Ireland; and they now complained that it had not been proposed for Scotland also. What had been done by the vote which had just been arrived at was simply to put it out of the power of any parties, for political purposes or otherwise, to command the register in any burgh, with respect to persons who, because of the lowness of their rental, might, be exempted from or made liable to the payment of rates at the discretion of parochial Boards, and to whom it might not be convenient to pay their rates. This, and nothing more, was the effect of the Amendment.
 MR. YOUNG : Is there a clause in the Act which corresponds to the 16th clause in this?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he was glad
 458
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the question before the House was one of a simple character, and that might be dealt with without any delay; but as his constituents were interested in the matter, perhaps he might be allowed to say a few words upon it. There was now no question that the number of Members of the House was not to be increased, and one of the two propositions before the House must be adopted. In respect of principle, there was nothing to decide; because, though the Head of the Government last year, in his speech at Edinburgh, said that no place ought to be disfranchised, the right hon. Gentleman had distinctly abandoned that principle in the Irish Reform Bill. In addition to the reasons given by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), he would state some reasons why the Motion of the hon. Member should be supported in preference to that of the hon. Baronet (Sir Rainald Knightley). For instance, a very large proportion of the boroughs with less than 5,000 inhabitants, were boroughs with a very large area indeed of land, as compared with their population. It appeared from the Returns of the Boundary Commissioners, that some of
 448 449
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that household suffrage pure and simple for Scotland was the only franchise which would be fair in that country.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that the article of sugar which paid duty in Scotland and was afterwards sent to Ireland only amounted to £500,000 as was shown by the Customs Returns; but the excess of revenue paid by Scotland over that paid by Ireland was equally manifest in the Inland Revenue and the Post Office Departments. He did not wish to draw invidious distinctions between Scotland and Ireland—they were integral parts of the same Empire, and he hoped very shortly Ireland would be more united than she had ever been to this country; but he quite agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) that Scotland was entitled to an addition of fifteen Members. In fact, he held it to be a very small demand that was now made.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he thought that if an abstract proposition were all that they had to decide, there was much to be said in favour of a large increase in the representation of Scotland; and hon. Gentlemen on both sides had very fairly expressed their opinions on that subject. But the Resolution did not profess to provide
 471
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that in 1832 poor rate was not generally levied in Scotland. In fact, at that time there were very few Scotch parishes in which there was a payment of poor rate, the poor being supported very generally by voluntary assessment. Accordingly the Scotch Reform Act did not make the non-payment of that rate a disqualification; but provision was made in the Act that the payment of assessed taxes should be necessary in order to entitle a person to the franchise. That provision still remains in force with reference to voters having a qualification above £10. He supposed that comparatively speaking very few of the persons who would come on the electoral roll under this Bill would pay the assessed taxes. Well, then, was it unreasonable, now that there was a general system of poor rate in Scotland, to require that—being placed on the electoral roll—persons should pay a tax for which they were liable? He saw no reason why the rule which obtained in England should not be also applicable to Scotland; but if there was any reason for making a distinction in this respect between the two countries, the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Bouverie) ought to have stated it. The only reason which had been suggested was that in a few parishes in Scotland, particularly Greenock, no poor rates were paid in respect of the occupation of houses. Now, he admitted that the borough of Greenock was in a very particular position; but in the course of the communications he had had with his hon. Friend who represented that borough (Mr. Dunlop), he had not understood that there was any objection to its coming within the rule applicable to other boroughs, and accordingly a proviso had
 475
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I rather think so, but I am coming to that. There is a difference between our system and the English system. [ Laughter. 482
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, the only effect of the proposal of the Government was to leave a certain floating balance of persons who would or would not have paid their rates, according as the political exigencies of the borough seemed to require.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I think it is right I should answer the appeal made to me by my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Young) opposite. He says he finds himself unable to see what is the meaning of the 3rd section of the 3rd clause. But I shall read the words in the English Act—
 "Has during the Time of such Occupation been rated as an ordinary Occupier in respect of the Premises so occupied by him within the Borough to all Rates (if any) made for the Relief of the Poor in respect of such Premises,"
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not think there could be any objection to the insertion of the words. It was his understanding that the law of Scotland, as it at present stood, was in accordance with the words; but if there was any doubt, it was better that it should be removed.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he wished that there should be no mistake on the subject of the vote to which the Committee had come. When the Reform Bill for Scotland was introduced, the right hon. Gentleman had said, with great fairness mid candour, that in these matters he would be greatly influenced by the views of the House, and that he would look to the opinions of Scotch Members especially as a guide in his proceedings. But in the debate which took place at that time, the Scotch Members pointed out in the most explicit manner that the rating principle would be productive of great inconvenience, and having since consulted together upon the subject, they placed their Amendments upon the Paper before Easter, so that the Government had had ample means of knowing what it was that they intended to insist upon. He thought the course adopted by the Scotch Members was perfectly justified, and he hoped they would continue in that I course. It was their duty to make this Reform Bill as operative and as beneficial as possible, and whatever might be the result of their votes he hoped they would persevere in their present course. He could have no objection to the right hon. Gentleman taking time to consider the vote, and with the advice he would have, he would probably find that the Scotch Reform Bill had not suffered any great detriment through the omission of the rating clause, which enfranchised and disfranchised nobody.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he wished to ask, Whether there is any reason why the privileges now conceded to Cattle imported from Normandy, Britany, Spain, and Portugal should not also be conceded to Cattle imported into London from Ireland?
 MR. SPEAKER : We are on the Scotch Reform Bill, and we have instructed the Committee to take Members from certain boroughs of England; but I do not think the matter of Ireland in Order.
 MR. SPEAKER  thought the hon. Member, on looking at his Resolution, would see a portion of it relating to Ireland, which was not in Order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the Resolution of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) were passed it would prevent the Bill being proceeded with in Committee that night.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, there was no difficulty in the matter. The House had chosen to add to the powers of the Committee, and the Committee would have full power to act in conformity with the Instruction.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the hon. Member had any objections to the Instruction to the Committee that the proper time to have brought them forward was when the Instruction was under discussion. The House had passed the Instruction, and it was now too late to discuss the point of Order.
 MR. PIM  conceived that the reference to Customs duties was very fallacious, as many articles imported into England and Scotland were consumed in Ireland. The amount of income tax paid would be a better test; but still he maintained that the poor man was as much entitled to the protection of the State as the rich man—so that he thought that the comparison between the three kingdoms should be restricted to population. On this ground, he thought that Scotland was entitled to fifteen additional Members; and he trusted that, when the case of Ireland came before the House, the Scotch Members would support any proposal which might be made for giving an increased representation to that country.
 MR. KENDALL  said, if the principle of rating was abandoned in Scotland they could not expect its continuance in England. He looked upon the Amendment as the introduction of the thin end of the wedge, in order to throw out the rating provisions adopted last year.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he did not rise to oppose the Motion for Progress which, under the circumstances, he thought to be natural; but he did rise to reply to the observations of the hon. Baronet the Member for Berkshire (Sir Charles Russell). That hon. Gentleman might be justified in speaking the sentiments of the hon. Gentlemen who sat around him when he said that the struggle of that night and the struggles which had been going on for the last two months were for the purpose of placing in power one of the right hon. Gentleman who led parties on either side of that House. Much as he respected and looked up to the right hon. Gentleman who led the party with which he had the honour of acting, he had, as an humble independent Member of that House, to disclaim such a motive as had been attributed to
 492
 MR. P. ROBERTSON  hoped the hon. Member for Edinburgh would not, under the circumstances, persevere with his proposal.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the offer to purchase the works of the East India Irrigation and Canal Company in Orissa, on account of Government, has been finally declined; if so, to inquire whether the proposals to carry out the Behar and Orissa schemes of irrigation by raising an additional capital of two millions sterling are now being made upon the sole responsibility of the speculators, and without any assurance of repayment at a future period from the Indian Treasury?
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the fact that a prisoner in Mount joy Prison, who declared himself a Unitarian, was ordered by the Governor to select his religion as Anglican, Roman Catholic, or Presbyterian, and that on his declining to do so he was sentenced to penal cell, with bread and water diet?
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether the restrictions on the importation of Cattle from Spain and Portugal to the Ports of Liverpool and Southampton having been removed, those restrictions will be continued against such importation to the Port of Plymouth?
 MR. DALGLISH  said, it would be a wise experiment to maintain the present Scotch system, and if it worked well the House hereafter might adopt it in the case
 481
 MR. AYTOUN  made a few remarks, which, however, were rendered quite inaudible by cries of "Divide !"
 MR. LAING  said, he distrusted abstract propositions as to the number of Members to be given to Scotland, in proportion to population and taxation, because he felt that London and some other places might on the same grounds claim a large increase of representation. He preferred to rest the case of Scotland on the specific claims of certain counties and towns to more Members; and to argue that Scotch counties and towns were entitled to be put on the same footing as regarded representation, as they would be if situated South of the Tweed. Proceeding on that principle, he thought that, in addition to the three counties of Lanark, Ayr, and Aberdeen, the county of Perth might also fairly claim to be divided, and to have two representatives. Then, if they turned to large cities and towns, they would find that Glasgow should be put on a par with Manchester. Manchester, with its appendage
 472
 MR. WHITBREAD , in seconding the Resolution, said, that of all the propositions which the present Government had made in regard to the Reform question not one had been more condemned both in and out of the House than that of adding to the number of Members of the House of Commons. The only excuse he had heard for that proposal was that it was a mere temporary measure, that some boroughs would be sure to be disfranchised for corruption by-and-by, and that Parliament need not enfranchise any other place until they reverted to the original number. But, did anyone suppose that when one borough was disfranchised for corrupt practices there would not be plenty of large growing towns coming forward as claimants for the vacant representation? Where was the increase to end? The Government had fixed upon the number of seven additional representatives for Scotland, but they said also that they were ready to add eight or ten or even any larger number. One thing was certain, that an addition of seven to the representatives to Scotland by increasing the number of the House would not be accepted as a settlement of this question. In point of wealth and numbers Scotland was entitled to twenty-five additional Members. It was one thing to take seven Members from England and give them to Scotland, and another to increase the number of Members of that House by seven. The concession in the latter case to Scotland
 441 442
 MR. BAXTER  said, he must remind the noble Lord (Lord John Browne) that the Scotch system was entirely different to that adopted in England or Ireland. He saw no reason whatever why they should be called upon to change a system that had existed so long and worked so satisfactorily, in favour of a new theory. He was not an old enough Member of the House of Commons to recollect the time when the Voting Act was passed; but he remembered when they used to make out the claims for the burghs in Scotland just as they did in England. They now, however, took the valuation roll for a county of Scotland as an electoral roll; and he put it to hon. Gentlemen on both, sides, who know Scotland, to say whether that had not worked well. They had found the system adopted in England not to work well in Scotland; and if the noble Lord who had just spoken had lived in Scotland, he would not have made the speech he had just done. There were more than 100 parishes in Scotland where there were no poor-rates at all; and what was to be done with them? He was, as a rule, in favour of assimilating the law in the three countries; but he appealed to the Lord Advocate and the Government not to force upon Scotland a principle which would occasion many difficulties in working, and which was totally unsuited to the system so long in work in that country.
 MR. BAXTER , in rising to move "That it be an Instruction to the Committee instead of adding to the numbers of the that, House, they have power to disfranchise Boroughs in England having, by the Census Returns of 1861, less than 5,000 inhabitants," said, he should endeavour to state, as succinctly as he possibly could, his reasons for having taken this course. Her Majesty's Government proposed to provide for the necessary increase in the number of Members for Scotland by an addition to the number of Members of that House. His proposal, on the contrary, was that they should, instead of doing so, disfranchise the boroughs in England having at the last Census a population of less than 5,000. That proposition would not, he thought, require or justify an elaborate argument. He had to show, in the first place, that there were certain increasing constituencies in the northern part of this island requiring additional representation, which was not provided for in the Bill of last year. He had got to show that the proposal of the Government with reference to the increased representation of such places was not one that ought to be adopted, and he had also got to show that the scheme laid down in the Instruction he now moved was the best solution of the difficulty. He wished at the outset, however, to disclaim anything like a partizan or factious spirit in bringing forward this Motion. He, and he alone, was responsible for it. He informed
 436 437 438 reductio ad absurdum. 439 440
 MR. FORDYCE , in seconding the Motion, said, that the demand of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) was a very moderate one, and that until it was conceded the people of Scotland would not be satisfied.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  only wished to say that he earnestly hoped Her Majesty's Government would persevere in the course they had announced. They had got
 489
 MR. POWELL  said, that there was a difference between this and the English lodger franchise, which said that the lodging must be in the same dwelling-house but this Bill said it might be in "any dwelling-house."
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  wished to know how they would stand when they went into Committee?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had been about to put a similar question. They had passed an Instruction which involved a perfect absurdity. Was the House to go into Committee not only to consider the Scotch Reform Bill, but also to repeal a portion of a statute which received the Royal Assent last year?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought the question of rating had been finally settled last year. It would be curious if they now had the battle fought over again in regard to Scotland which occasioned the death of one Government in 1866. The question was then the main subject of prolonged debates, and he had, he thought, sufficiently pointed out the importance of the question when he reminded the House of the momentous issue which had followed the decision upon the point. They were told that that principle was inapplicable to Scotland, though it had been established in England. He was, however, prepared to say that so far from there being special difficulties in the way, there were peculiar facilities in the law of Scotland. They were, for instance, happily free in the northern part of the island from that individual, the discussion of whose untimely fate had occupied so many of their sittings last Session—he meant the compound-householder. He apprehended that the fact of the direct payment of rates by each householder in
 479 480
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, there was a provision—a stringent provision—in the Bill specially directed against such practices.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he could not assent to the description which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Moncreiff) had given of the question on which the Committee had just come to a decision. He must remind the Committee that the question really was whether there should be in the towns of Scotland household suffrage, pure and simple? This was put most distinctly to the Committee, and it was not open to hon. Members to say now that it was any other question that had been under consideration. There had been no attempt on the part of hon. Gentlemen opposite to fill up the blank
 493
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to Page 55 of the twenty-ninth Annual Report of the Registrar General, in which it is stated that "Cholera matter (cholerine) has evidently been diffused all over the Kingdom;" what is the evidence of the existence of that "zymotic element;" and whether it has been accepted as a scientific truth?
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  thought £10 an excessive rental for a Scotch lodger franchise.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, that the vote arrived at that night was one of the most important that had occurred during the Reform debates, reversing, as it did, the whole principle on which the Bill was founded. The principle of the Bill, originally founded on enfranchisement, was now converted into one of disfranchisement. The Scotch Members were quite warranted in insisting upon additional representation; but it ought not to be obtained by plundering England while there were so many large towns in the latter country still unrepresented. He trusted that the Ministry would not accept the vote which had been arrived at that night; but would once for all put an end to a state of things which was neither creditable to Parliament nor to the country, and which, in his opinion, was scarcely creditable to the Ministry itself. He thought the vote arrived at was of such serious importance that they must either decide to throw over the Scotch Bill altogether and appeal to the country, as I they might fairly do, on the Reform Bill already passed, or place the Government of the country in the hands of those who
 491
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY , in rising to move an Amendment to the Instruction of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), said, he concurred in many of the arguments that, had been used for taking away representatives from some of the small boroughs. So far back as ten years ago, when the Earl of Derby brought in his Reform Bill, and on other occasions since, he had stated his opinion that the re-distribution schemes embodied in Reform Bills did not go far enough, and that the question of the distribution of Parliamentary power could not be settled satisfactorily without disfranchisement to some extent. He remembered, however, that
 443 "Stiff in opinions, always in the wrong, Everything by starts, and nothing long." 444 Ce n'est que le premier pas qui coute. 445
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that after the Secretary of State for India had made the offer to purchase the works at a certain price the shareholders held a meeting, and resolved to ask a higher price than had been named. The Government at once declined to make any advance on their previous offer, and since that time the Government had had no communication whatever with the Company. He saw in the newspapers that the Company were advertising for capital; but they were doing so entirely on their own account,
 426
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that no decisions had yet been arrived at, as the recommendations from Bengal differed somewhat from those of Bombay, and they would be considered together. He might state, however, that, to a considerable extent, the proposals of Sir Alexander Grant would be agreed to. The social position of those engaged in the Educational Service would be improved, and there would be some increase in their salaries, but no decision had been arrived at in reference to pensions.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL , in seconding the Amendment, said, the Scottish representatives believed their country had a fair claim to have its representation considerably augmented. That claim rested on the grounds of population, property, find taxation, and, as it had been generally admitted by the House, he would not now press it. But if in these three points the Scotch had, on the whole, outstripped both England and Ireland, yet there were portions of England which, in some respects, had outstripped Scotland, When, therefore, his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) gave Notice of his Instruction he feared the proposal to take away some of the English seats would rather endanger than improve the chance of obtaining for Scotland increased representation. He was glad, therefore, that an alteration had been proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for South Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley), whose Amendment, he hoped the House would be prepared to accept. With regard to the original proposal of the Government to add to the numbers of the House, he could not go as far as his hon. Friends the Members for Northamptonshire and Montrose. The idea of the latter seemed to be that 658 men are too large a body to form a deliberative Assembly. It was difficult to define a deliberative Assembly exactly; but it appeared to him that if 658 persons formed too large a body, the same thing might be said of 600, or 500, or 300, or, perhaps, even 100. Indeed, in the earlier part of the evening, it had been urged upon the House that there was a considerable deliberative difference between five and seven. In point of fact, a great public Assembly like that House was not
 446 447
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, What progress has been made during the past year with the monument to the late Duke of Wellington, and whether it is likely to be completed in the course of 1869?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, in conformity with the Notice which I gave several days ago, I wish to ask Her Majesty's Government What course they propose to take on the Second Reading of the Established Church (Ireland) Bill, which stands for Friday, the 22nd instant?
 MR. MELLY  seconded the Resolution.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  was bound to say that his hon. Friend (Mr. Trevelyan) had advanced his arguments with great fairness, and with a certain amount of moderation, and that he was not surprised lie bad apologized for the form of his Motion, inasmuch as the Motion of that evening was not a sequence to the Motion of last Session, The Motion of last year was in an abstract form, to the effect that the system of purchase in the army did not conduce to the efficiency of the army. That was a proper and natural Motion to make. It was debated at some length, and was negatived by a largo majority. He should have expected that the Motion of this evening would have been a renewal of the one of last year, in the hope of obtaining a reversal of the decision then come to; but his hon. Friend now proposed a long and detailed scheme, whereby purchase in the army should be immediately abolished. The Motion of his hon. Friend was of a much more sweeping character than any ever advocated in that House or out of it, for Sir De Lacy Evans never attempted to abolish the system of purchase at once. He would ask the House to listen to what his view of purchase in the army was, for his hon. Friend had called it a miserable
 534 535 536 537 d 538 539 rota s 540
 COLONEL SYKES  observed, that in the old Indian Service there were no less than 6,000 officers, and yet amongst them discipline, efficiency, and the highest gentlemanly feeling were maintained without the aid of purchase. Promotion was accelerated in the Company's armies by a regimental arrangement that was highly satisfactory up to the time when it was put a stop to by the transfer of the Government of India to the Crown. In the Company's army every officer entered as a cadet, and rose by seniority, as he himself had done; and the arrangement he referred to was the regimental bonus fund, out of which, when an officer up to the rank of lieutenant colonel retired, he received the conventional sum attached to the rank he held. Contributions to that fund were regulated by the proximity or otherwise of the officer to the head of the rank he held, and were not compulsory, as some hon.
 547 béte noire
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he was sorry that he had made a mistake; but he had thought that there was some oath or declaration of that kind; and his impression still was that some declaration was subscribed by officers appointed adjutants of Militia and Volunteers. In illustration of his argument that the purchase system prevented meritorious officers from rising, he (Colonel Sykes) would mention the case of an officer now senior subaltern, who had been born in the regiment, became sergeant-major, and for distinguished service and high character had an ensign's commission bestowed upon him by the Horse Guards. He saved enough money to buy a lieutenancy, and he had now risen to be the senior subaltern. The regiment being about to go to India, two extra companies had to be added to it, and it became accordingly necessary to have additional captains. He made an application for one of the companies, but the reply he received was, that, as a matter of economy, it was intended to give them to captains whose companies had been reduced on their regiments coining home from service abroad. Such a decision was plausible enough in
 548
 GNEERAL PEEL : I do not feel myself called upon to defend the original introduction of the system of purchase into the army, or to deny the objection which in theory exists to anybody being enabled to attain promotion or preferment merely because of his having the means to purchase an advance, while another officer, his equal in point of ability and merit, does not possess that facility. But do not let it be for a moment supposed that the system of purchase is confined to the army. There is not a class of life, from the highest to the lowest, in which people do not obtain appointments by means of money. Take the highest offices in the Church. Livings, which are the first step to those offices, are notoriously purchased. Take, again, the highest offices in the State. These can only be obtained by passing through this House—by a system of purchase, as everybody knows. [ Laughter. 549 "That this House will make good such sums as maybe required to give just compensation upon their retirement to existing officers who, in respect either to the then regulation value of their Commissions, or of sums paid by them in accordance with regimental usage, may be liable to pecuniary injury in consequence of the, adoption of the above Resolutions." 550 551 552 "Born in the army, and having entered it at about sixteen years of age from school, I naturally feel the greatest interest in everything connected with our military service. I was therefore alarmed when I read in the public prints that in the proposed re-organization of the Departments it is contemplated to abolish the purchase system, and to a certain extent substitute promotion by selection. If the abolition should be adopted for selection, the greatest discontent will exist from the notion of gross partiality. I have the firmest conviction that it would be a most fatal blow to the good feeling which should pervade our ranks of officers (and which happily now exists to the fullest extent), it would engender feelings of jealousy, as no selection during peaceable times can be viewed as impartial (unless by seniority), where there is no opportunity for distinguished conduct.
 553 "The purchase system, as a rule, is no grievance to the non-purchaser; it in no way what ever interferes with the good feeling between brother officers. The man who cannot purchase feels that the purchase system clears away a great many of his seniors, and thereby gives him the best chance of early promotion without purchase. Of course there are a few grumblers in the service, and always will be under any system.… I feel certain that if the votes of the non-purchasing officers of the army could be taken on this question, the proposition to set aside the purchase system would be swamped.…Promotion from the ranks to a limited extent will no doubt be left open in any change. Great care should, however, be taken lest a good non-commissioned officer makes a bad officer, from imperfect education, irritability of temper, &c."
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSAY  said, he did not despair of the hon. Member (Mr. Trevelyan) being induced to alter his opinions, with regard to the very sweeping measure he had brought forward. It would have been more candid if he had separated from the purchase system that which in reality had no connection with the subject at all—the money paid over and above the price of the commission. His hon. Friend had alluded to the fact that at one time it was difficult to find officers for commissions in the Cavalry. That was not the case at present, or his hon. Friend would have referred to it in support of his argument. The fact was, that the army was at the present moment a very popular service, and there was no difficulty in obtaining officers, though the pecuniary inducements
 559 560 561 562
 MR. OTWAY  said, he was unable to agree in the remarks of the hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Loyd Lindsay) with respect to promotion by selection. Selections were made in the French army on the reports of commanding officers by a Council of Marshals who met once a year in Paris, and no injustice was, as far as he could learn, done to officers who were serving at a distance. The same principle of promotion by selection prevailed also in the Prussian army, and with the best results—the difference being that in Prussia promotions were made by the King in consultation with his Military Cabinet. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) had admitted that if the system of purchase did not exist no one would think of introducing it. It must be confessed that it had about it a surprising vitality, since before the Crimean War every one regarded it as doomed, and yet it was flourishing at the present day. The existence of the system depended, first, on the exceptional conduct of the officers of the British army, who had maintained a character for pluck and honour which was unsurpassed by the officers of any other country, which induced people to say that the system could not be a bad one which produced such officers; and secondly, in the extreme difficulty in getting rid of it on the score of expense. He felt himself placed in a little difficulty by the two different Motions before the House. He was fully sensible of the pernicious effects of the system of purchase, so often exemplified in the fact of an officer possessed of a few thousand pounds being raised over the heads of men who were immeasurably his superiors in professional knowledge and ardour. It was said that the system was a perfectly fair one, having no caprice about it; but this he was far from being prepared to admit. It was said that one illustration was often better than a hundred arguments, and he would mention a case that, in his opinion, remarkably exempli-
 563 The Gazette 564 d.
 MAJOR WALKER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is intended to lay upon the Table the Regulations for the Army Reserve and the Militia Reserve?
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he thought the administrative confusion manifested in the
 588
 LORD ELCHO  said, the vitality of the purchase system consisted simply in this— that them was both in that House and in the country a strong practical instinct which prevented them from being led astray by theories, and made them unwilling to do away with a system that was found on the whole to work well. His own opinion was that it would be most unwise and most unpractical to abolish the system of purchase as it now existed. Great misapprehension prevailed as to what that system really was. All the talk they had had about trafficking and huckstering, and the discouragement of youthful talent and merit, was only like giving a dog a bad name, and the hon. and gallant Member for Truro (Captain Vivian) had done good service by quoting the very able pamphlet of Mr. O'Dowd, founded on articles which had previously appeared in the  Army and Navy Gazette. 566 567 568 569 Apropos 570 "Be careful how you touch the regimental system of this country, because the English soldier is the best pawn on the chess-board of the military world."
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware that Publications, the sale of which has been condemned by a Court of Law, are now being openly offered for sale in the Streets of London, and such being the case, whether the Police have power to interfere?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that he had made a general statement as to the condition of the work last week. Upon receiving notice of the Question of the hon. Member he had communicated with the artist, Mr. Stephens, who informed him that he could hardly expect to have the whole of the figures fixed in their places before the end of 1869; but he hoped by that time that great progress would be made.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, his reason for advocating the total and immediate extinction of the purchase system was that he believed every step towards it would not only more firmly ingrain it in the constitution of the army, but render it more difficult and ultimately more costly to abolish it. The speech of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Truro (Captain Vivian) divided itself into two parts— first, a glowing eulogy on the system of
 541 542 543 544
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, with the indulgence of the House, I will on Thursday
 514
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, as we look upon this Bill as the first step towards the disestablishment of the Church, we intend to give it the greatest opposition we can.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he listened with anxiety to the proposal of the hon. Member for North Devon, and referring to the subject of local taxation the hon. Gentleman said that a Minister of Agriculture ought to have nothing to do with the matter of local taxation. Some improvements might, no doubt, be made in other matters connected with agricultural Returns, &c.; but the subject could be very well dealt with by the Board of Trade. He did not undervalue what had been said by the various speakers with reference to the cattle plague and its ravages in this country; but the insular position of this country afforded great facilities for preventive measures by the proper regulation of our ports with reference to the provision of proper quarantine sheds and layers for the cattle under directions from the Board of Trade, as a primary means of guarding against the introduction of the disease; but strange to say, objections had been raised to it in the Committee now sitting on the subject. The Royal Veterinary College had sent its professors in each of the two years, previous to the inroad of the cattle plague, to places on the Continent, to watch its progress, and had warned the Government and the public of its approach and of its incurable character. But the knowledge of the veterinary surgeons of this country had been disparaged. He could state from his own knowledge that the veterinary profession warned the country two years before any steps were taken to guard against the disease. He was connected with the Royal Veterinary College, and he knew that the professors were sent for two years to watch the progress of the disease abroad, and through the Royal Agricultural Society repeated warnings were given to guard against the disease, and yet for three months after the advent of the disease, because they could not cure an incurable malady which ought to have been barred out by the Government, they were spoken of in disparaging terms. In answer to what had been said ns to Scotland's needing a charter for the veterinary profession, he replied that Scotland had a charter which was obtained through the instrumentality of the Highland Society, and the only real grievance was that an attempt was made to get rid of that charter, and that a separate charter was refused by the Board of Trade. The veterinary knowledge of
 589
 MR. READ  rose to second the Motion. He said, that this was a question which deeply interested his constituents, and in which he had taken an interest for a very long time. He disclaimed any desire to revive the old Board of Agriculture, which many said had been a failure, but from which, nevertheless, might be dated almost all our agricultural improvements before steam and cheap education had taught people to help themselves. We had no need of Slate assistance to do what agricultural societies did much better. We did not want such a Minister of Agriculture as in France, where the Government did everything and the public nothing; but what we wanted was local means of enforcing public regulations; and in order to make any sort of regulations certain, swift, and general, we must possess a better organization than we had at present. There were practical inconveniencies which he had experienced in his dealings with the Government administration with respect to the cattle plague. On the subject of the cattle plague he had a good deal of experience, because he represented the greatest winter-grazing county in England; he had the honour of being a Cattle Plague Commissioner, and the misfortune to be a farmer whoso herds had been ravaged by the disease. In his dealings with Government on this subject he had found that if he wanted to know anything about fairs and markets he must go to the Home Department; if about importations he must go to the Privy Council; while on the subject of statistics and cattle transit it was the Board of Trade that must be applied to. So much inconvenience, however, had been found to arise from this distribution of duties, that the Government of the day had thought proper to huddle them up together and to institute a body over which a colonel of Engineers and afterwards a philosophical doctor were appointed to preside. The result was that the only persons satisfied were the butchers of London, who were not very desirous of giving their cus-
 585 d 586
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would not enter into all the subjects referred to by the hon. Member for North Devon (Mr. Acland), many of which—such as the whole system of roads throughout the country, the cheap railway communication for the agricultural districts, and the water basins of the country — could hardly be regarded as having any connection with the Motion before the House. The whole of the blame attaching to the present state of things ought not, in his opinion, to fall on the Government, for it was to a great extent attributable to the action of the House, by whom the system of local management had been he strenuously upheld. In the question of health, for instance, a subject which had come before the House with great prominence of late years, there were so many conflicting authorities — the nuisance authorities, the sewer authorities, and so on—that any one desirous of stopping the progress of the disease did not know to what quarter to resort in order to put the requisite-powers in force. The attempt to gain for a central authority the necessary powers of enforcing such precautions as might be deemed necessary to the preservation of health had already been attempted; but the proposals had been so mutilated by the House, that when the measure was passed the lawyers decided that the House had done nothing but create an authority and withhold the power. He was now endeavouring to put into operation the 49th section of the Sanitary Act, but he proceeded with fear and troubling.
 590 591
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I have made inquiries into the subject of my hon. Friend's Question, and I find that since the decision referred to that book has not been sold in the streets, though there is no doubt—for I hold one of the covers in my hand—that the cover is put on books in order to sell them, but within the cover the purchaser finds a book of a totally different character, and of a harmless nature. The attraction of the title appears to be great, as it is used for advertising and selling books of a very different kind. I am told that the Police keep a register of the books and pamphlets sold in the streets, and interfere when their interference is called for. As to the book referred to by my hon. Friend—for I presume his Question relates to  The Confessional Unmasked
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he had listened with sincere pleasure to the two hon. Members who had preceded him. His hon. Friend (Mr. Acland) had raised most important issues, and he was sure his remarks on the subject of divided jurisdiction would lie heartily endorsed by urban as well as rural populations. The present system made reform of local taxation for sanitary and other improvements utterly impossible. Although it was not likely a Committee would be granted at this period of the Session, administrative reformers could congratulate themselves on one good result which had been gained; five years ago the speech of his hon. Friend would have called up against him charges of aiming a blow at local government, to-day his strictures and conclusions were acquiesced in by hon. Members on both sides of the House. His hon. Friend's experience regarding faulty Returns in agricultural subjects was very similar to his own in reference to local taxation; but the first step towards the remedy for all these defects was to define some uniform method of government for boroughs, counties, or areas generally in the country. Out of doors it was said that the House was indifferent, and not sufficiently industrious as to the question of local taxation; but he (Mr. Goschen) did not think there was a want of either zeal or industry on the part of the House. At present the governing I bodies varied so strangely that it was impossible to find an authority for any special
 587
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH  in reply, said, it was the intention of the Treasury that the Memorial from the Officers referred to should be considered; but the Commission that was sitting to consider the general subject had not yet reached their ease. It was probable that an alteration would be made in the Commission before the inquiry was carried further.
 MR. TREVELYAN : At the very commencement of what I have got to say I must entreat the House not to regard my Resolutions with the disfavour that is apt to attach itself to anything that promises to be an annual Motion. Whether the suspicion with which hon. Members meet a propositition that is renewed year after year be well-founded or not, at any rate it is undeserved in this case. I do not trespass on the time of the House in order to repeat the arguments brought forward lost year against the system of purchase in the army. My object to-night is to supplement those arguments with a definite plan, the adoption of which would allow us to abolish that system at once and for ever. Last year, both in the course of the debate and subsequently in private conversation, many Gentlemen expressed themselves strongly against the existing machinery of promotion in the army, but maintained that it was useless for anyone to meddle with it who could not produce a better. Now, Sir, it is very certain that no one should presume to stir so important a question without having previously thought out the subject to the end. And accordingly I had my scheme of retirement and promotion ready cut and dried. But it was necessary to preface that scheme with a full and complete statement of the shortcomings of the system which we propose to displace. It was necessary to say at length all that could be said against the sale of military commissions. And after the House had listened to me with great kindness for a good hour while 1 dilated on the main objections to the purchase system, it would have required a far greater right to its attention than a Member of my standing can claim to detain it for another hour over the details of a new system, necessarily extensive and complicated in its nature. Many hon. Members no doubt recollect the line which the discussion took last year. It is needless to recapitulate all that was urged by the speakers on our side of the question. They showed, to the satisfaction of at any rate more than two-fifths of the Members present, as the division proved, that the army could never be a profession in
 515 516 "I am quite willing to admit, as the result of my own study of this question, that it is impossible to read the Report of the Royal Commission, the various correspondence of Sir Charles Trevelyan, and the pamphlets which he has published on this subject, without being convinced that there are great and serious anomalies in this system of army purchase. There are many things connected with that system which are fairly open to criticism, and which at least suggest very serious doubts whether, if we were to commence anew, we should found promotion upon the purchase system which now prevails."—[3  Hansard "I quite agree with the Secretary of State for War that this system of purchase is full of anomalies and objections; and I believe that there is no true friend to the army who would not be glad to see the system abolished if we could only devise a system without similar anomalies and objections." —[ Ibid 517 "My own conviction is, that if you touch the system of purchase at all it would be wiser to abolish it altogether." "I am prepared to say this, that any change which is propounded should be n complete one, and not a partial one." "I should be sorry to see any partial change-adopted. I think that any change should comprise the whole question, so that there might be security to the officers of the army; for any partial change would lead to doubt and uncertainly." 518 "The object aimed at- has not been attained, for the prices given for commissions in the Cavalry have not been practically diminished, nor is there any probability of their being so while the purchase system continues, since the purchaser naturally always fives the market value of the commission lie wishes to get; and therefore if at any future time it should be determined to compensate officers for their vested interests in the actual value of their commissions, it will be found that the total amount of the claims to be extinguished would be as large as if this expenditure to buy up the difference in the prices of Cavalry commissions had never been incurred." 519 "Every officer in Her Majesty's forces who shall take, accept, or receive, or pay, or agree to pay, any larger sum of money, directly or indirectly, than what is allowed by any regulations made by Her Majesty in relation to the purchase or exchange of commissions in Her Majesty's forces, shall, on being convicted thereof by a general Court-martial, forfeit his commission and be cashiered: and the Commander-in-Chief is directed to take measures for giving full effect to the penalties attaching to such offence." 520 521 522 régime 523 "I have seen inefficient officers get promotion for the purpose of enabling old officers to realize their capital, perhaps on the point of death. I have seen superior officers appointed to high commands, from their not having been previously able to recover their capital through an unexpected brevet." 524 "I would place every captain en  retraite 525 526 chef de battaillon "Every year there is an inspection of every regiment in the service; and there are inspectors-general appointed, who are not general officers commanding troops anywhere, but independent men—a certain number for the Infantry, a certain number for (he Cavalry, a certain number for the Artillery, and a certain number for the Engineers. Before they start on their lour of inspection, they each get a printed form of instruction, pointing out exactly all the points to which they have to turn their attention; and it keeps up the most perfect uniformity throughout, because these men have not been commanding this particular regiment or that particular regiment. They go amongst them quite unbiassed; they have to turn their attention to the selection of officers for promotion; they are told that in such a district there are so many regiments and so many officers, and there will be so many vacancies The commanding officer of each regiment presents to the inspector about double the number if officers for promotion than there are vacancies for. The inspector sees these officers, examines them in every way, and marks the best men. All those confidential Reports are sent to the Minister at War, and the inspectors general meet in committee, and form a general return of promotion. In accordance with their return the Minister makes his promotions." 527 528 529 corps d'élite. This belief was carried so far, that out of the annual multitude of recruits, the tallest men with the broadest chests, were taken for the Artillery and the Engineers. The Cavalry had the next choice. Then the battalions of  Chasseurs L'Armée Francaise d'élite 530 531 532 533
 MR. TREVELYAN  explained his meaning to have been that no one had so risen who had never purchased a step. He was referring to the period before the Crimean War.
 MR. TREVELYAN , in reply, said, that his principal object had been to lay before the new or, if necessary, before the old constituencies the system under which our army was officered—a system, as he believed, ominously and dangerously at variance with what promised to be the opinion of the English people. It was now clear that the real argument against the abolition of purchase was the argument of the cost which it would involve; and if that could he got over, they would not hear much of the advantage which poor officers derived from the purchase system. To cite the success of the Abyssinian expedition in proof of the efficiency of the existing system was rather unfortunate, for Sir Robert Napier belonged to a non-purchase corps, the most highly instructed branch of the service—namely, the Royal Engineers. As the debate had thoroughly satisfied him, he did not propose to divide the House.
 MR. WHALLEY  remarked that within his own experience the difficulty of subduing an attack of fever in a country district had been greatly increased by the I numerous authorities that had to be consulted in each successive step. He thought that a Committee, or a Commission of Inquiry, should be appointed, not so much with a view to the establishment of a new administrative Department, as the revision and consolidation of the several Acts of Parliament which had been passed during the last ten years for the purpose of suppressing contagious diseases.
 MR. GRENFELL  said, that the first step towards democratizing the army would be to establish the conscription; and if the country was ready to bear that burden it was entitled to enjoy the other privileges of the French system. Unless, however, hon. Members were prepared to go to this extent it would not be right to democratize only the officers. He thought that the proposition of the hon. Member (Mr. Trevelyan) was one that ought to be ex-examined not only by military officers, but also by those who were engaged in civil pursuits. It. happened that he was employed at the War Office when the Purchase Commission was sitting; and he held a position at the India House when the amalgamation of the Queen's and the Company's services was brought about,
 554 matériel 555
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that there was no such oath.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, When he proposes to introduce the Bill which he promised last Session for the consolidation and amendment of the Merchant Shipping Acts?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of their Lordships to take into their consideration the case of the Outdoor Officers of Customs of the Port of London, as prayed for by them in their Memorial addressed to the Treasury on February 10, 1868, to which no reply has been received?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he thought his hon. Friend who brought forward the Motion (Mr. Trevelyan) could not seriously suppose its result would be at all favourable to his views. Was it likely that the Treasury and the country would be prepared to pay a very large sum of money in order to enable his hon. Friend to carry out certain fancies of his own against the general feeling of the army? Undoubtedly the operation of "purchasing over" was a very disagreeable one to the officers affected by it; but, nevertheless, he had no hesitation in declaring his belief that the genera
 545
 COLONEL NORTH  also said, that there was no oath of that kind, and never had been such an oath in the regular army.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he might remind his hon. Friend of the case of Sir John Elley, a distinguished Waterloo officer— at one time a Member of that House— who commanded the Blues for years. He could not at the moment give the names, but he had no doubt that previously to the Crimean War there were many officers in command of regiments and brigades who had never purchased their promotion. If his hon. Friend referred to the evidence given before the Select Committee presided over by Sir James Graham, he would find that the Cavalry had up to that time been officered by young men who either possessed large fortunes themselves or were the sons of gentlemen of property Many of these officers had graduated at the Universities; but at the time when the sixty-five cornetcies became vacant men of this class, although they would have been able to pass the examination, declined to do so because they did not choose to run the risk of being plucked. His hon. Friend had made a mistake respecting the £200,000 paid out of the Reserve Fund; for the real effect of that payment was to benefit the poor officers. It was true that when the army was despatched to the Crimea our officers had not that experience which the officers of every foreign army possessed; but this was due, not to the purchase system, but to the niggardly conduct of the House of Commons in refusing to grant sufficient supplies to enable our officers to perform their duties. The circumstance of the Army Transport Corps being a non-purchase corps had been particularly dwelt upon in the course of the present discussion; but in point of fact it was a non-purchase corps by necessity, being officered by non-
 546
 MR. M'LAGAN  deplored the absence of a department which could utilize by bringing into a focus the experience gained by the various agricultural societies scattered throughout the kingdom. Great efforts had been made by some societies to extend a knowledge of veterinary science, particularly in Scotland, where ineffectual attempts had been made to gain a charter for improving the means of veterinary education. Unless Returns were brought together they were comparatively valueless, and a central office would discharge a useful task if they collected and published in an accessible form the agricultural Reports annually received from our Consuls and Colonial Governors which were now scattered through the blue books. In the United States there was a Commissioner of Agriculture, who corresponded with the agricultural societies, collected information at home, and despatched agents to procure information abroad, as well as to bring home the seeds of new plants, which were given to fanners to experiment with. He likewise superintended entomology and other departments of science, as also the industrial arts; and two years ago the subject of his investigations was the question of a substitute for cotton. An officer of this kind would, he thought, be useful in this country, and one subject which would come under his cognizance would Le the adulteration of food, which was carried on to so enormous an extent. The Society of Arts was now conducting an inquiry into the various kinds of food and their qualities, and into the sources necessary for the supply of the English people. Now such an investigation would be more properly undertaken by a Government Department. Agricultural statistics, agricultural education, the produce of lands and rivers, enclosures, food, and the cattle plague might nil be included in the proposed Department. While, however, prepared to vote for the hon. Member's (Mr. Acland's) Motion, he thought it might be better at this period of the Session to obtain the appointment of a Commission.
 MR. DALGLISH : I beg leave, Sir, to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, Whether, after the decisions of the Committee on the Scotch Reform Bill last night, it is his intention to proceed with that measure on Monday next?
 MR. ACLAND  rose to call attention to the inconvenience arising from the want of an authority specially charged with the duty of considering questions affecting agriculture and the food of the people, and to move for a Committee to inquire into and report upon the Functions of various Government Offices so far as they affect Questions relating to Agriculture, with a view to provide for the due consideration of such Questions by one Department responsible to Parliament. He had therefore to establish two points. 1. That there are subjects connected with land and agriculture requiring the attention of some public authority responsible to Parliament. 2. That there is  primâ facie Essays on Questions for a Reformed Parliament "Sound or not, these speculations point to one inference, which is—that there is the most intimate connection between the food supply of the cities and the freedom of the land. In whatever degree our agricultural system checks the outlay of capital, or militates against security of tenure, it tends to diminish the productiveness of agriculture and to raise the price of food in towns." 580 haras 581 "All the larger questions of drainage involve most serious difficulties, both as respects the determination of drainage areas, the appointment of proper local authorities for superintending drainage schemes, assessment of their cost, &c, and these questions daily grow more pressing. It is difficult to see how they can much longer be dealt with without some central authority specially charged with the subject. To such an authority would belong the initiation and guidance of inquiries in connection with sewage and its distribution, and the granting powers for the taking of land for the purpose of sewage application." 582 583 584
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that so large a question as this could only be dealt with satisfactorily by the Secretary of State for War, who alone would be able to obtain all the requisite information. The system which he should like to see tried would be to have young men enter the Infantry for four or six years, say from the age of eighteen to twenty-three. The effect, he believed, would be that almost every family of the middle and lower classes would desire a son to enter the army; and these young men would make excellent soldiers, while the discipline which they would undergo would be very advantageous to them. Many of them would be able to rise to non-commissioned officers, and some, perhaps, to officers. The difficulty that had to be met in our army was, that troops had to be stationed in all parts of the world; but he thought the colonies might, to a great degree, protect themselves; and the system he suggested would, of course, necessitate a separate Indian army—an arrangement which he had always advocated. With regard to officers, he was anxious that they should be better instructed. They were thoroughly brave; but the want of professional know ledge on the part of many of them led, he feared, to the loss of a large number of soldiers, especially at the commencement
 558
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, this discussion has occupied so many hours, and so many Members have, like my noble Friend who has just sat down (Lord Elcho), spoken in opposition to the Motion before the House, that I hardly think I can add anything to the arguments by which the Motion has been opposed; but, considering the position I hold, I hope the House will indulge me for a short time while I make some observations on points to which —while endeavouring to avoid repetition — I think I ought to address myself. Before I touch on the question itself, I wish to express my acknowledgments to the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Trevelyan) for his kindness in postponing his Motion, in consequence of my illness, at a time when he held a very advantageous position on the list. I can assure the hon. Gentleman I am glad that, despite the postponement, he has had an opportunity of bringing forward the question under such favourable circumstances. Only a year has passed since it was my duly to meet the hon. Gentleman on the same subject. He then, as he has done on this occasion, brought it forward in a speech of great abilty and earnestness—a speech in which I believe he was entirely actuated by patriotism and zeal for the welfare of the British army. As I before stated, I am by no means the champion of purchase in the army. On abstract grounds, as a matter of theory, I think there can be no question that the purchase system is full of anomalies and opens up a very serious consideration. I agree with my hon. and gallant Friend who spoke in the early part of the evening, if we were now commencing to form and organize our army, no reasonable man would be likely to think of adopting the purchase system. But all our institutions are full of anomalies and flaws that may be detected by hostile criticism. In our military system there are certainly many anomalies. Is it not an anomaly that, without any question, ours
 571 572 573 Army List Army List 574 575 576 577 578
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied that he laid the Papers on the table of the House some time ago.
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  craved permission to say a few words in explanation with regard to a gallant Relative of his whose case had been referred to by the hon. Member who had just spoken. The senior major of Major Herbert's regiment had refused to purchase promotion out of the regiment before it was
 565
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  said, he was glad that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grenfell) had given notice that he would, if necessary, move the Previous Question, because he felt this was a very large matter, which ought not to be settled by a Resolution of the House. Though in favour of purchase in the army, as furnishing the best system of retirement that he was acquainted with, he was not so wedded to it but that he was ready to accept any other system which might accelerate the flow of promotion, without doing injury to the interests of officers, whether present or prospective. The hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Trevelyan), though disclaiming the accusation as far as he was concerned, yet mentioned, as if he believed there was some truth in it, an allegation that had been made by others—namely, that officers of family sought for employment in purchase corps because they wished to have the pleasure of purchasing over the heads of others. Now, the object of officers of family was almost invariably to get into crack corps; and these were the very regiments in which scarcely more than one or two officers would be found in the whole list that were not for purchase. Therefore, it could not be for the pleasure of purchasing over the heads of others that men of family entered the service. Then the hon. Gentleman said that the longest purses
 556 Army List 557
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  in reply, said, he thought that the state of Public Business for some time past and at the present moment was a sufficient Answer to the hon. Gentleman's Question.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that having spoken on this Bill on more than one previous occasion, he would not now trouble the House at any length. He must, however, remind the House that this Bill was not, as the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) supposed, the introduction of a new principle. The principle had been introduced by the Act 6 & 7  Vict bonâ fide 598 599
 MR. BUXTON  said, that law should be founded on justice; and, in the present instance, justice demanded that the man who uttered a libel, being the really guilty party, should alone be made responsible.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the question was not a party question, nor was this a Government Bill. He confessed that he was disinclined to the Bill, which he thought would be a protection for the careless and ill-conducted newspaper, and was not wanted by the well-conducted Press of the country. It was said that the guilty person was he who uttered the slander; but the question was, whether the mischievous person was not he who gave it publicity? Slander when uttered at a small meeting, in a small place, might be of no great importance; but when circu-
 604
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, he took the same view. By this Bill it was sought to shift the responsibility of a libel from the publisher to the speaker; but if this Amendment were adopted, it would shift the responsibility back again to the publisher. It would involve the clause in considerable confusion, and give rise to a great deal of litigation.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in that case the hon. Gentleman ought not to have voted for going into Committee. The words in the clause, " bonâ fide bondâ fides
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Bill had been greatly modified by the Select Committee, and that he now supported it to a certain extent because it appeared to him to be a beneficial measure. He was himself responsible, in a great measure, for this clause, as agreed
 610
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he also objected to the clause. Two persons belonging to opposite political parties might have an encounter of words at a public meeting. The editor of the local journal might favour the gentleman who held the same political
 613
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to apprehend that an action could be successfully maintained against a man whose speech had been misrepresented. [Mr. Serjeant GASELEE: Not with success.] If that was the learned Gentleman's objection, anyone was liable to have an unjust action taken against him; but the law provided for such a case by mulcting the plaintiff in costs. The publication of the apology might be made in the paper in which the libel was published; but if that were objected to, a paper might be selected by the person libelled. Having passed the 1st clause, the Committee could not, he thought, do otherwise than pass this; but he was in favour of omitting the words, "reflecting upon the character or conduct of another," and of inserting, "reflecting upon the personal honour or honesty, or professional, mercantile, or business character of another."
 THE CHAIRMAN  reminded the Committee that they were discussing the question whether the clause should stand part of the Bill.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had carried them back 500 years, to the time when a difference was made between written and spoken words, but the distinction between the two things had been drawn long before there was any question of reporting. When a man spoke with reporters before him, and knew that what he said would probably be published, there could be no reason for the existing distinction. The hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. T. Chambers) had said that it would be a hard thing to call upon a man who had unwittingly gone just beyond the line at a public meeting to make "a servile apology;" but he asked, what necessity was there that the apology should be servile? If led in the heat of speaking to go beyond the truth and beyond what he meant to say, surely the first thing any honourable man would desire to do would be to relieve the person he had unintentionally injured from the injury he had inflicted on him. As to a speaker having no chance against a reporter when he came into Court after the lapse of three months, the speaker might easily answer that his words had been taken down wrongly, or that he had not intended to say what was imputed to him, and that was as good an apology as any man need require, while it was also one which any honest man could readily make. That there was considerable difficulty in the matter he had felt in the Select Committee; but he thought the clause as drawn by the Attorney General in the main met the requirements of the case. He entirely approved the principle of the clause, holding it to be of great public advantage that there should be reporters present at public meetings, and thinking it only just that the Press should be relieved of responsibility if it fairly published what passed.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to point out that the effect of the clause would be to attach the same responsibility to words spoken as now attached to words written. The clause, moreover, made a speaker liable for an action on account of a paragraph in a fragmentary report; whereas, had the whole speech been reported, the passage, which printed alone might appear libellous, might have been perfectly harmless. The clause was a dangerous one; for if a man in the course of a long speech dropped one word to which exception could be taken, he was to be liable to an action for libel. There was no provision that the jury should take into consideration the whole speech, or even that the whole speech should have been properly and fairly reported. If a man bad been grossly slandered, and said of his slanderer that ha was unworthy of belief, he would have
 615 616
 MR. NEATE  wished to know, whether the other Law Officers of the Crown agreed with the Attorney General upon that point?
 MR. NEATE  said, he would consent to omit the words, "by the editor of such newspaper," in order to meet, the view of the hon. Member for Honiton.
 MR. NEATE  said, that in his opinion the editors of newspapers should not be altogether exempted from the necessity of exercising discretion. He had known at railway meetings charges of general dishonesty brought against Members of that House in consequence of their connection with companies. He moved that at the end of line 15, after the words "bonâ fide, without actual Malice, and in the ordinary Course of Business," these words should be added, "and in the exercise by the editor of such newspaper of a reasonable discretion."
 MR. NEATE  said, he thought the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) had done quite right in taking issue before going into Committee, especially as the Bill was a very short one, and as an attempt was about to be made to strike out the 3rd clause, and thereby to deprive aggrieved persons of the remedy which the Bill, taken as a whole, would give them. That remedy, however, was quite insufficient. For instance, it was no uncommon thing, in railway meetings, for some ignorant person to charge Members of that House with having a corrupt interest in railway legislation; and though it might be published in all the newspapers, yet according to this Bill there would be no remedy except against the utterer of the slander, who, as the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had said, might be a mere man of straw. Newspaper editors usually exercised their discretion very judiciously in eliminating objectionable remarks made at public meetings, and as an instance he might mention that the reports of a recent meeting, where very strong intemperate language was used respecting the conduct of the House of Commons, contained no allusion to that language. He was willing to admit that whatever the state of the law was the present race of
 597
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked whether the hon. and learned Gentleman wished to make the proprietor of a newspaper a co-defendant? [Mr. NEATE: No!] He (Mr. Newdegate) did not mean that such a proposal was contained in the Bill; but the hon. and learned Member suggested it in his speech. There would be some sense in such a proposal.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he would divide, if only for the pleasure of hearing a speech from the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  reminded the hon. and learned Gentleman that it was not he who had introduced the subject to which he (Mr. Roebuck) was referring.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that the thin state of the House would in itself be a justification for the Amendment which he intended to move. With respect to the observations of the hon. and learned Baronet the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen), he had only to observe that the hon. and learned Baronet himself had introduced the opinions of the Papacy against free discussion; and that he must leave to the hon. and learned Baronet the responsibility of having cited those opinions. He opposed the Bill because its principle was a reversal of the principle of Lord Campbell's Act. In his early years that eminent lawyer was engaged in reporting in both Houses of Parliament; so that his
 593
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the Attorney General rested his defence of the clause on the  bondâ fides bonâ fides bonâ fide bonâ fide
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he felt confident that when the Bill went to the House of Lords it would he rejected.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the Committee had already decided that defamatory matter, whether spoken intentionally or by accident, should be published; and he maintained that it was morally and practically impossible, by any contrivance, to insure for the subsequent apology and retractation equal publicity with that given to: the original slander.
 MR. CRAUFURD  hoped that the clause would be negatived, in order that a better one might be prepared.
 MR. CRAUFURD  held that both the man who uttered, and the man who published, should be liable. It was not right that the person who did most mischief should escape scot free.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he held that the words were necessary, because otherwise the whole onus would be thrown on the speaker, while the person who circulated and multiplied the slander was allowed to go entirely free. The law of the land punished the utterer as well as the forger; why not, then, the editor as well as the speaker?
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he objected to the clause because it made speakers at public meetings answerable for words which they might not have uttered, but which were attributed to them in reports which they had had no opportunity of correcting. A speaker's words uttered in haste, and upon the spur of the moment, might be twisted and distorted by a reporter, and the speaker might be prosecuted for an offence which in reality he never committed. There was, therefore, a practical objection to the proposal. Only that morning he had seen words attributed to himself which he had not used; and if they had been libellous he might, under this clause, be sought to be made liable for an authorized report. He objected, moreover, to the provision requiring an apology to be published in any paper selected by the person who felt himself aggrieved—a provision which might be used for purposes of offence; some papers regarding certain individuals with known aversion, and other papers having no other object than to obtain notice, and thus increase their circulation by these means. It would be impossible to treat such papers with contempt, if their unauthorized reports were thus to be made the foundation for proceedings against a speaker. The clause would fetter the freedom of discussion throughout the country, and would, in his opinion, complicate rather than simplify matters; and he would, accordingly, give it his utmost opposition.
 MR. SANDFORD  moved, instead of the word ''proceedings," to substitute "speeches." Persons who were in the body of the meeting might get up and utter
 605
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he must oppose the Bill. He could not help apprehending that things might occur such as were suggested by the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. T. Chambers). He had known things said about himself, conveying the most offensive imputations about the motives of his public conduct and proceedings, which were actually printed and disseminated in newspapers by hundreds and thousands over the country. The mischief that was done by a report of slanderous statements could not be measured by the circulation of the small country paper in which it might originally appear; because that report might be copied into other journals and circulated all over the world, Some severe remarks had been made in a country paper upon his conduct as Chairman of a Railway Company; and though the proprietor was afterwards compelled to confess in a Court of Law that those remarks were false and malicious, yet they were copied into all the journals that were opposed to his (Mr. Whalley's) public conduct; and copies of those journals were forwarded to his constituents. The real object of the Bill was to convert slander into libel; and he submitted no case had been made out for such a change. He called upon the House not to commit itself to a measure which might seriously compromise the public interests. The proper course would be, if a change in the law were to be made, for the Government to take up the question and deal justly in the matter, in a large spirit—not prompted merely by the consideration of cases of individual grievances. For his own part
 600
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought the Committee were entitled to ask the hon. and learned Member for Clare for a fuller explanation than had yet been given of the probable effect of this clause. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would press his Amendment to a division. The Bill was only brought forward in consequence of the importunity of the Press.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the object of the Bill was to convert slander into libel, and to compel everybody to be as careful of what he spoke as of what he wrote. That was certainly a consummation not to be wished. The whole tenour of Lord Lyndhurst's speech in 1858 was contrary to the change now proposed. The existing distinction between words inadvertently spoken and statements deliberately committed to writing ought to be retained. He might illustrate the evil working of this clause by referring to the case of the lecturer Murphy. That gentleman was only the representative of a class of men who went about the country, actuated by strong feeling, with the single desire of making known the doctrines, discipline, laws, and
 612 Cries of and
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he must again protest against this alteration in the law, which had been objected to by Lord Campbell and Lord Wensleydale. The whole weight of legal authority was against the principle of the Bill. A speaker, under the excitement of addressing a public assembly, may scarcely know what he says, or mean what he says, and the law at present takes cognizance of such a possibility; but by this Bill a speaker is to be made responsible for the circulation of his statement throughout the world by another person, and thus the freedom of speech is to be restricted. At present if a man said anything indiscreet, the law considered it merely as slander, and that he should not be held liable to as severe punishment for hasty and inconsiderate expressions uttered in the excitement of the moment as if he had deliberately written the matter. It was the publication that did nearly all the mischief.
 MR. WHALLEY  wished to confirm what; the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had said as to the absence of; proper protection for public speakers. Any observations that he himself ever made on any subject were always misreported. That Bill was intended to give form and substance to a professional and organized system of misreporting. At present there was, he believed, an influence exerted on the Press which rendered it impossible for any person who spoke on a certain subject, to which he need not more particularly refer, to rely upon being fairly and accurately reported. ["Name."] He might mention the name of the lecturer, Mr. Murphy, whoso addresses were said to have produced riots and disturbances in the country. His own name having been mixed up by the Press with Mr. Murphy's, he had made two special journeys to Birmingham to ascertain whether the reports in the newspapers purporting to give what that lecturer said were true or untrue. On the one occasion he questioned twelve, and on the other twenty persons on the subject, and he had found that a report professedly of what that gentleman had said had been entirely fabricated to bring derision and obloquy upon him, and make him appear
 618
 MR. H. BAILLIE  thought it ought to be rejected instead of postponed.
 MR. LAWSON , as a Member of the Select Committee to whom this Bill was referred, wished to say a few words on the subject. He conceived it to be the interest of the public to know what took place at public meetings, and this Bill was inertly an extension to other cases of a well-known principle already acknowledged in the law, and that was, that if a newspaper gave a  bonâ fide 603 bonâ fide
 MR. COLERIDGE  said, he coincided in the objections which had been taken to the Bill by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, and should vote with him in case he divided the House, though not from the fear of any combination of Jesuits or other persons. He did not agree with the assertion of the hon. Member for Sligo (Mr. Serjeant Armstrong) that the Bill made no important change in the law, for it really made a most important one in the wrong direction. The strongest argument against it was that it required the introduction of the 3rd clause to make it palatable, and the opinion of the Attorney General was that unless the 3rd clause was retained the Bill would prove most mischievous. Already public comments upon the public acts of public men were privileged. It was only when private character was attacked that the law was stringent, and it was right that in such cases there should be some restriction on publication. Why should a private, harmless man be dragged out of his privacy by the publication of a slander in a news-
 601
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the hon. Gentleman had said that there was a combination to carry this Bill, and that behind there was—some terrible phantom of his imagination. He called that an hallucination; and although the hon. Gentleman might object to that word, it was an exceedingly applicable one. He was no; friend of the Jesuits; but he did not think that the House of Commons was likely to be influenced by anything that they might do. Hon. Members might relieve their minds from that terrible phantom, and he asked them to look at the matter by the calm light of reason, and not through the lurid gloom of bigotry. He trusted the House would go into Committee
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, then he must go on. The Press was a great advantage to this country in propagating information; but the value of reports of public meetings depended on their truth, and their truth on their completeness. Suppose that at a meeting a man in a tipsy state got up and made a slanderous attack upon another. If that incident should be left out of the report it would not be a truthful report. It was not right to punish the man who gave a true account of what took place
 594 fons et origo mali
 MR. ROEBUCK  submitted that the Amendment would not make the security greater.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the Amendment would serve no purpose, inasmuch as any sentence uttered in the way of interruption at a meeting was necessarily a speech.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the proposed words would be mere surplusage, inasmuch as the question of the reasonable discretion on the part of the editor or proprietor of a newspaper would be left for a jury to consider.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the Committee
 607
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he was in hopes that the hon. Gentleman would have acceded to the request made by the hon. and learned Baronet beside him (Sir Colman O'Loghlen), because all the objections to the Bill might be dealt with when considering the clauses. The Bill did not interfere with Lord Campbell's Act. But did the hon. Gentleman intend to divide? Because if not, he would not trouble the House further at present.
 MR. ROEBUCK  recommended that the clause should be carried and the Bill be recommitted.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he did not desire to restrain the liberty of the Press in any way; but he thought that newspaper proprietors were sufficiently protected at present, and that Parliament should pause before it did anything which would be an encouragement to penniless persons to publish slanders upon private character. That would be the effect, he feared, of this Bill should it become law. He did not think it right that parties should be put to the expense and trouble of repudiating charges which might be altogether unfounded. If slanders were uttered, he trusted Parliament would not give facilities for promulgating them. Generally speaking, the English Press was an honour to the country; but there were badly-conducted journals whose interest it might be to publish calumnies.
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, there was no novelty of principle in the Bill, while the state and progress of public society rendered it a necessity. He thought that the 3rd clause of the Bill was a necessary corollary to the 1st and 2nd; because, if it was just to afford protection to the newspaper proprietor, it would be unfair to give the maligned party no redress against the author of the slander. He believed the Bill would really prevent slander.
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  maintained that the Amendment was altogether unnecessary. The words "actual malice in the clause had a well-known and clearly defined meaning.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER , while approving the principle of the Bill, objected to the extension of liberty to newspapers at the expense of speakers at public meetings. At present a man was not liable for spoken words unless they imputed an in-
 609
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  thought the; clause should be postponed.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, he hoped the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) would persevere in his opposition to the Bill, which would be mischievous and dangerous in its results, and was not called for by the present state of the law. He thought the House ought to hesitate long before introducing the change now proposed. Its object was to protect a newspaper proprietor from liability for printing a libel, provided he did not originate the injury, and he might therefore publish it from printed matter. If newspaper proprietors were thus protected in the publication of second-hand libels there would be no limit to them. The defence had been already set up in Ireland, but without success; and, indeed, if such a defence were admissible, it would be possible to re-produce in this country slander or treason spoken at a legally convened meeting in New York and reported in the American papers. He believed that newspapers had all the protection that was
 602
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, that the argument of the Attorney General only showed the necessity of inserting the words of the Amendment.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE   said, there were so many objections to the clause and to the Bill that he did not know where to begin in opposing it. It made it dependent upon a reporter whether a man was a libeller or not. A man was to be hell liable, not only for words which he had used, but for words which he had never used. The speaker would be at the mercy of the reporter, and unscrupulous journalists might use this power to bring men into trouble and difficulties. Very often a reporter must be highly educated to understand properly what you said. Of course it was some comfort to be reported by an educated reporter. But in many parts of the country reporters wore not highly educated, and you could easily hit above their heads. If the party who made a speech said he was entirely misrepresented, what was he to do? How could he be expected to insert an apology? And be was not permitted to justify himself by inserting a denial. The effect of the clause would be frequently to compel a man to apologize for words which he had never uttered. It was a dangerous and uncalled-for Bill; and he hoped it would go back to Ireland and never show its face in that House again.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he did not think that the intention of the Committee was to create a new offence—namely, that of throwing ridicule upon a third person. He did not think that the clause had that effect; but if there was any doubt upon the subject it ought to be removed. Hon. Gentlemen seemed to have forgotten the conditions of public speech in this country. If a twin made an oration in public, the probability was that it would be reported; and the man, therefore, who made it ought to do so under the fullest sense of the responsibility he incurred. He did not think it was fair to attempt to shift the responsibility on to the shoulders of others. A person who, at a public meeting, uttered reflections upon another ought to be held liable for so doing. Even if reporters were not present, great mischief might be done; and the slanderer should not be allowed to escape. He did not think that the clause would have the effect of limiting freedom of discussion, or that men like the lecturer Murphy would be rendered liable to action for libel because they saw fit to ridicule the doctrines and tenets of the Church of Rome. But to remove the doubt that had been thrown out, he should move that the words "reflecting upon the character or circumstances of another" be omitted, and the words" reflecting upon the personal honour or honesty or professional, mercantile, or business character of another" inserted.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  thought the clause ought to be more guarded and re-
 617
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the Amendment would almost nullify the effect of the Bill, because its words might mean that the proprietor of a newspaper, before he published a report, must ascertain whether the words of the speaker were true or false.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that if the Amendment was adopted, it would defeat the object of the Bill.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that in case such a contradiction were given and suppressed it would be for the jury to say whether the publication was, in the words of the clause, a fair report of the speeches in the ordinary course of business.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  denied that this was a Bill introduced in the interests of the ill-conducted journals. A hundred petitions had been presented from newspapers in favour of the Bill, together with a petition from the Provincial Newspaper Press Association, which included the proprietors of 200 newspapers; and it would hardly be said that all these were "ill-conducted." The organs of all shades of opinion were in favour of the measure; and he reminded the House of the great expenses to which newspapers were put by actions of this class, though juries might return verdicts against them for merely nominal damages. The privilege which newspapers now enjoyed in publishing the proceedings of Courts of Justice was mere Judge-made law; and it was actually doubtful at this moment whether the same privilege attached to the publication of the proceedings of Parliament. In the case of "Wason  v The Times sub judice
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in moving "That Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair," expressed a hope that his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) would not move the Amendment of which he had given notice, "That this House will, upon this day six months, resolve itself into the said Committee." Last Session the Bill, after very ample discussion, passed that House by a majority of 70 or 80, and this Session, on the Motion for the second reading, it was again discussed at some length. Every objection that had been made could be discussed on going through the clauses in Committee. As the Bill was in no way connected with religion, it was not one in respect of which he should have supposed his hon. Friend would take so extraordinary a step as that of opposing the Motion for going into Committee. It was true that last November some parties issued a circular in which it was stated that the measure was a bribe to the Press to advocate Popery; but he could assure his hon. Friend that the Bill had not emanated from the Jesuits, nor been submitted to the Propaganda.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  asked leave to postpone the clause.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he thought the clause was a perfectly fair one, and that it was rendered essentially necessary by the protection given to newspaper proprietors by the two clauses which preceded. He contended that a person who went to a public meeting and deliberately made a statement was not entitled to the benefit of the distinction between slander and libel. The late Lord Lyndhurst, in a speech delivered in the House of Lords in 1858, pointed out the injustice of allowing a man who made a defamatory speech, knowing that it would be published, and probably with a view to publication, to escape with impunity, while the reporter, who could have no malicious motive, and who perhaps did not know the point on which the calumny turned, was made the scapegoat. As to frivolous actions, a jury had to decide whether matters were libellous or not, and if a man who had been ridiculed in  Punch
 MR. J. GOLDSMID  said, he was in favour of the Bill as an extension of the Act of 1843. He thought the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. T. Chambers) had absurdly exaggerated what he considered the- dangers likely to flow from this Bill. It was not at all likely that any respectable paper, with a large circulation, would trouble itself to insert slanderous or scurrilous matter spoken by some worthless person at a small local meeting. The Committee who had inquired into the subject were of opinion that, when defamatory language uttered at a meeting was afterwards published in the ordinary way in the newspaper, the action should not lie against the proprietor of such paper, but against the person who deliberately uttered the language alleged to be libellous.
 MR. J. G0LDSMID  said, it would be a physical impossibility for the editor to read every report that was going into his paper.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  contended that, if the hon. Gentleman's argument were valid, that would be the strongest reason for inserting the words, which would make
 606
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, that at the most inconsiderable meeting the reporter might take down the most reckless speaking, and the editor publish it without fear of punishment. Was that a thing which should be allowed? The editor in such a case should certainly be held responsible.
 Mr. T. CHAMBERS  said, he must point out that it was not the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), but the author of the Bill, who had introduced the religious element in the present discussion, which ought to be conducted without reference to any supposed combination out of doors. For his own part, he was far from being convinced by the arguments adduced in favour of the Bill. In the first place, he denied the correctness of the proposition that the propagation of all things which happened to be true was for
 595 596
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he would remind the Committee that, in the warmth of debate or in the excitement attending public meetings, persons often exceeded the bounds of propriety, and used strong language, which they would shrink from committing to writing. The 1st and 2nd clauses conferred exemption from liability on persons who had no claim to it; while this clause inflicted penalties on those who did not deserve them. Generous and high-spirited men were apt, in the agitation of popular debate, to use language from which they would revolt in calmer moments; yet it was proposed to let the person escape who, for his own profit, circulated the slander, and thereby did all the mischief. This was not the case of robbing Peter to pay Paul, but of robbing Peter to make an unnecessary and mischievous present to Paul. The measure, instead of protecting an innocent Press, would remove the responsibility which made the Press a blessing to the country; and it would fetter freedom of speech by requiring the observance of greater caution and self-control than was always possible, under penalty of an action or of a servile apology, to which not one man in fifty would stoop. The argument of Lord Lyndhurst supposed a case which was not likely to occur; and it was, therefore, of no authority in the present discussion. He was ready to admit that if the principle of the 1st and 2nd clauses wore adopted it would be necessary to qualify the concession to newspaper publishers. But there was not much in the whole Bill of which he could approve. He should support the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth (Sir Robert Collier) for the rejection of the clause.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, the main question was—who was the guilty party; the speaker who uttered the libel, or the newspaper which published it? He contended it was perfectly plain that the speaker was the guilty party. He quite agreed that it was not desirable to report every word spoken at every little village meeting; but, at the same time, there was nothing to prevent the newspaper editor exercising proper discretion. There were discussions of great public importance which it was well to have fairly and fully reported, and this was especially the case with respect to the proceedings of great public companies. In his opinion the most dangerous calumny was not a statement in the public Press which might be publicly contradicted, but a private slander repeated from mouth to mouth. For his own part, if a charge were made against him at a public meeting he should prefer the exact words of the speaker to be given in the report. He hoped the 3rd clause would not be omitted, for if it were it would be impossible to bring an action against either the newspaper proprietor or the speaker in the event of the report being accurate. The feeling of the majority of the Members of the Select Committee to whom this Bill was referred was that it was just and right to transfer the responsibility from the newspaper to the person who uttered the libel.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, it was an error to suppose that there would be no responsibility left if this Bill passed. Discretion would still have to be exercised, but by the speaker instead of by the editors of newspapers. Surely, it was better that that discretion should be thrown on the speaker, and that a slander should never be uttered than that it should be uttered but never published.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I am rather unfortunate in being the object during the present Session of several Questions which raise very great scruple in my mind as to how far I am conforming to the general practice and rules of the House in replying. My own opinion is that it would not be consistent with Parliamentary decorum for any Member of this House to state what course he would take hi a future Parliament, and I am absolutely precluded from so doing. I will only, therefore, say in general, by way of reply to the hon. Gentleman, that my intention is, in any situation or circumstances in which I may be placed, to adopt any and every measure of a legitimate character which may appear calculated to forward the great purpose which I have taken in hand with respect to the disestablishment of the Irish Church.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he understood that the principle of the Bill as it now stood which had hitherto not been considered, would be discussed at the present stage, and he proposed therefore to state his opinions with regard to it.
 MR. DODSON  reminded the hon. Member that they were not discussing the Preamble, and that he must confine his observations to the clause under consideration.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that to enable himself to discuss the whole measure he would conclude with a Motion—That the Chairman report Progress. He did not blame the Government for desiring to proceed with all reasonable expedition with this measure, which they had put forward as one of great importance, in view of an election by the new constituencies; but Members must be careful not to take any foolish or false step in the matter. The question whether the House should or should not part with its jurisdiction in these cases had not been adequately discussed, and those who were best acquainted with the proceedings of the present tribunals for the trial of Election Petitions—namely, the lawyers who practised before S hose tribunals, were unanimously of opinion that the existing system had many advantages, and was not open to any of the objections that had been raised against it. This Bill provided machinery which was not adequate to meet the difficulties of the case, and contained many provisions which he could not but regard as objectionable. He should support the clauses by which the provisions against bribery and corruption were made more stringent; but would leave the Committees as they are, so far as numbers are concerned. He would, however, appoint honorary Justices to preside over the investigation. After a General Election he would appoint coadjutors to the honorary Justices, to assist them in disposing of the increase of business that would result from it. He proposed to substitute for the proposal on that point in the Bill a provision enabling the honorary Justices and the Speaker of the House of Commons to appoint qualified barristers of a certain standing to assist them in the discharge of their duties and accordingly act as honorary Justices. They, like the honorary Justices, would be responsible for the law laid down, and the Committee, still consisting of five members, would decide all questions of fact. In a pamphlet published by Mr. Pickering, very much of what he (Mr. Denman) now proposed was embodied. Instead of a majority of Members, as at present, deciding a question, the jury should be unanimous, and the effect would be that the men engaged in the inquiry would feel a greater
 659 éclat
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  concurred in much that had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Denman). The present mode of treating Election Petitions was not satisfactory; but it was not so unsatisfactory as to induce them to make a change in the existing state of things unless they could get something almost perfect, so far as Legislation could be perfect. The Bill before the Committee certainly did not answer that expectation. He objected  in toto 660
 MR. LAWSON  objected to the Bill oil the ground that it applied solely to England. The three parts of the United Kingdom were under the same law, and it was a bad precedent to have separate legislation in matters common to the three countries. He believed it was intended to
 661
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he had strongly approved the Bill in its original shape; but the Government, in deference to the Judges, had left out their only valuable proposal, and now, bad—dreadfully bad—as was the jurisdiction of the House in reference to Election Petitions, he preferred to keep it as it was rather than to make the change now suggested. In his opinion the reasons given by the Judges for not taking upon themselves the proposed duty were insufficient; but he thought they ought not to give the Government power to select the particular Judges for that duty, but should allow them to be appointed by ballot from the whole body of the Judges. The power of oppointing Judges Privy Councillors was objectionable. About thirty years ago there was a practice of making some Judges Privy Councillors, and lie recollected that it created much jealousy among the Judges, and gave rise to the greatest possible dissatisfaction. Judges who had influence were made Privy Councillors, s while those who were honest and had no influence did not attain to that distinction. He was not prepared to vote for a Bill: taking away the jurisdiction of the House unless it was given entirely to the Judges. He also thought there should be one Bill for the entire kingdom. He believed the majority of the legal Members of the House were of opinion that additional Judges were not wanted, except for the circuits; but this Bill expressly provided that the two new Judges who were to be appointed under it should not go on circuit. As it was notorious that learned; gentlemen who knew but very little law were sometimes appointed Judges, such persons might be appointed by the Government under this Bill; and as they would not be in close communication with the other Judges, they would for get what little law they knew. He objected to giving more patronage to a feeble Government, who ought to confine themselves to passing the Scotch and Irish Reform Bills, dissolving Parliament, sending in their own resignation, and then re-
 662
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he concurred with the hon. and learned Serjeant that the Government ought not to undertake any legislation that was not necessary; but he could not conceive any subject that more required legislation than the subject of the present Bill, and he should therefore give it his support. He certainly did not suppose any Government was capable of selecting two Judges, as the learned Serjeant insinuated, solely for the purpose of deciding Election Petitions in a manner which might be convenient. [Mr. Serjeant GASELEE: I neither said that nor insinuated it.] That was the impression produced on his mind, but he was glad he had misunderstood the hon. and learned Serjeant. He believed the present or any other Government would select the Judges whom they  bonâ fide 663
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : I will remind the Committee of the position in which we stand in relation to the subject, which is confessedly one of great importance, and one which touches the privileges and the honour of this House. I am perfectly satisfied that the Committee is prepared to deal wish it in a deliberate, calm, and impartial spirit, and with an anxious desire to sustain the honour and reputation of the House, and its position in the eyes of the country. This question of the purity of elections has been for a long time under the consideration of the House; and for a very long time dissatisfaction has been expressed as to the mode in which the elections for representatives in this House are generally conducted. It needs no words of mine to point out the fact that it is becoming a prevalent opinion that the House of Commons is elected to a large extent by influences such as we are ashamed to own. And, if this opinion be not counteracted, the legitimate and constitutional influence
 664 665 666 667
 MR. DENMAN  said, his objects were to obtain a general discussion upon the measure, and to have the question referred to another Select Committee.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : In regard to the reference of the Bill to another Select Committee, I will venture to say that, if such a proceeding be assented to, we cannot expect the measure to pass this year; and I think that the House cannot appoint a Committee that will carry more weight with it than did the Select Committee of last year. There is very little to be considered by a Select Committee, because this is the Bill of last year, with the exception of the point with reference to the Judges. That point we shall have sooner or later to discuss and decide in this House, and to refer it to a Select Committee would be a wasting of the precious time of this Session. If the House wishes to make real progress with the measure it will be better to withdraw the Motion and at once proceed to discuss the clauses of the Bill. The Bill can be better discussed in Committee of the Whole House than by a Select Committee. I ask the House to examine it calmly and dispassionately, and the only object the Government have in proposing the Bill is to improve the present system of dealing with Election Petitions.
 MR. MELLY  thanked Her Majesty's Government most warmly for the Bill, containing clauses providing for an inquiry on the spot, which seemed to him to be the first proposition which had been made at all calculated to go to the root of the evil. Under the new state of things the kind of corruption that was likely to prevail was that of small payments to a great number of persons. A few years ago there had been an example in point; and it had taken the Committee in London no less than twenty-six days, during which they examined no fewer than 326 witnesses, before they were satisfied that there was a clear case. The cost to the prosecutor of that Petition had been no less than £11,000. Surely, therefore, as a matter of saving expense, it was
 668
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, there were two classes of the Members of that House who might be allowed to feel a natural interest in the Bill before them—those who had sat on Election Committees, and those on whom Election Committees had sat. It was his misfortune—assuredly it was not his fault—to have belonged to the latter; and as the result of his personal experience, amid all the changes and chances of this eventful Session, there was one hope to which he had been constant—namely, that they would pass this Bill, or some equivalent measure, before they were sent to their constituents. He had spoken of his personal experience. It was comparatively recent, it was somewhat costly; it was, therefore, vivid, and it was very much at the service of the Committee. He was sure it would be wrong to say of Election Committees; as at present constituted, that they were not impartial. He was confirmed in his seat by the unanimous decision of a Committee, the majority of which consisted of two Metropolitan Members and a Roman Catholic Gentleman—a tribunal not altogether favourable for one of his opinions; but their decision was unanimous. He could further say that when the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) was in the Chair, the Bar was certainly not stronger than the Bench. But when he had said that he had said all. The process was dilatory, it was costly, and it was totally
 669 670
 MR. AYRTON  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Schreiber) seemed to think that the decision of the Committee which had seated him was unsatisfactory, and would have preferred an investigation before one of the Judges.
 MR. SCHREIBER : I said the process by which it arrived at that result was unsatisfactory.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that having been Chairman of the Committee in question, it seemed to him strikingly to illustrate the danger of transferring the determination of such questions to a tribunal that would deal with them on rigid technical principles; for while the decision of the Committee in seating the hon. Gentleman was no doubt right, if the case had been tried before one of the Judges what the decision might have been it was not easy to say. As to the question of moral weight, no doubt the proceedings of Election Committees did lose their moral influence if what afterwards was stated to occur really took place. There was undoubted evidence of corrupt practices at Cheltenham, and by way of honouring the decision of the Committee the hon. Member paraded himself in the town of Cheltenham. [Mr. SCHREIBER: No, no!] He was seen there afterwards in the company of those persons whose conduct was brought under the notice of the Committee. [Mr. SCHREIBER: No. no!] At all events, it was important that such a thing should have been publicly stated in the Cheltenham newspapers, and should not have been contradicted by the hon. Gentleman. Of course, if a Member under such circumstances did not sustain the decision of the Committee it could not be expected to have much moral weight. Regarding the Bill as a measure for the suppression of
 671  v 672 673 674
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  was compelled to enter his protest against the somewhat impassioned, not to say stilted, eloquence of the lion, and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, who had so vehemently objected to the House abandoning the long-cherished right of being the tribunal which had to adjudicate upon its own delinquencies. He had been impressive on the evils of a trial conducted by a Judge without a jury. Might there not, however, be something even more objectionable than this—namely, a trial conducted by a jury without a Judge. No one could say that the country felt that absolute respect for the purity and independence of Election Committees which ought
 675 bonâ fide 676
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he wished to say a single sentence with regard to the allusions that had been made first by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Portarlington (Mr. Lawson); then by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton); and, lastly, by the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope), who had just sat down, respecting the want of uniformity in this Bill, and the alleged defect of its not applying to all the three kingdoms. Now, as far as regarded the Northern portion of the kingdom, he thought he should be able to relieve the anxiety of those Gentlemen who had taken it under their wing, by reminding them that there was a Return on the table of this House which showed that, since the passing of the Reform Act of 1832, there had been 252 Petitions presented to Parliament alleging corrupt practices, and that of these only four came from Scotland, and of the four only two were found to be substantiated. Now, he thought when a Petition had been presented on an average only once in every nine years from Scotland, it would not require any addition to the Judges in that part of the kingdom to decide or report upon them. The general opinion in Scotland was that they had too many Judges already, and there would be no difficulty whatever in sparing one of the Judges to try a petition when there was one to be heard, He had no hesitation in saying that in half-an-hour he could frame a clause—a perfectly operative one—in this Bill, which would make it as suitable for Scotland as in its present state it was to England. He had no doubt the learned Lord Advocate could frame the clause in a shorter time, and in much better terms. He said therefore that hon. Gentlemen might be relieved from their fears about Scotland, for the matter
 677
 MR. DISRAELI  regretted that the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Denman) should have moved that the Chairman report Progress, because he thought there was a fair chance of making progress with the Bill in Committee that night. The hon. and learned Gentleman founded his proposition on the ground that there had been no discussion on the principle of the Bill; but unless his (Mr. Disraeli's) recollection deceived him very much, that statement was not entirely correct. He recollected that the hon. Member for Berwick (Mr. Mitchell) opened a discussion upon the Question that the Speaker leave the Chair, and that that discussion, which was upon the principle of the Bill, was not a short one; and the House having decided after that discussion to go into Committee, he must express his disappointment at their not making any progress. At the same time it was not his inclination to attempt to check legitimate discussion in this House; but still at that late hour he saw no chance of proceeding in Committee with any advantage, and therefore he would consent to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman to report Progress, so that they might proceed with the other Business of the night.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he did not know how to understand the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. The Bill raised a question extremely interesting to Members of this House; and, as far as he could judge, those who were considered authorities were, without reference to parties, singularly divided in opinion on the subject. Now he thought when the right hon. Gentleman appointed this Bill for the Business of the evening, he might have anticipated, from the gravity of the question of the transfer of jurisdiction
 678
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the right hon. Gentleman had entirely misunderstood him. The Government were not prepared to give up the Bill, or any part of it. The provision relating to the transfer of the jurisdiction of that House, which he looked upon as the main principle of the Bill, had been discussed upon the second reading, and could have been discussed in
 679
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that when the hon. and learned Member behind him (Mr. Denman) moved that Progress be reported, he did not do so with the object of stopping the consideration of the Bill. The discussion upon the principle; of the Bill in its previous stages had been very slight, and it was desirable that it should be more fully gone into. He was a Member of the Committee which recommended the alteration of the mode of trial, but he had for himself opposed the total abandonment by that House of all its jurisdiction on this subject. It was the duty of the Government to let the House know what were their intentions with respect to Scotland and Ireland upon this question, as it would be an absurdity to discredit the existing tribunals, as far as England was concerned, and yet leave them jurisdiction over elections in the other parts of the kingdom. The Government ought to state definitely what their intentions were respecting the present Bill, and also to lay before the House their scheme for dealing with Scotch and Irish elections.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) should bear in mind that the Bill as originally drawn up in accordance with the recommendations of the Select Committee was not intended to include either Scotland or Ireland in its provisions. When objections were raised on the part of the English Judges to the transfer of the jurisdiction to themselves, it was thought better that the provisions of the Bill should
 680
 MR. DENMAN  observed that the Bill as originally drawn was very different from the Bill as it now stood; its principle had not been discussed, and it was for the purpose of obtaining further discussion that he had made the Motion for reporting Progress. He altogether objected to the proposed tribunal. If the Government were able to render the Bill a valuable one, it would be in consequence of the valuable suggestions which had been made during the present discussion.
 MR. FAWCETT  entreated the right hon. Gentleman opposite to use all the influence which the Government possessed and to persevere with this Bill. There were portions of it undoubtedly to which objection might be taken; but there were many advanced Liberals willing to assist him in getting the measure passed. He feared that the discussion of that evening would produce a singularly bad impression out-of-doors, where an opinion prevailed very extensively that the House was not in earnest in its desire to put down corruption. And when it was perceived—as it could not fail to be—that the discussion and delay had originated on the Liberal side of the House, he could not refrain
 681
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  repudiated the notion that there was any desire for delay on the Liberal Benches. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire felt very naturally that this was a great constitutional question, upon which it was important not to legislate in a hurried or incomplete manner. The House ought to be very jealous of its honour; and, in parting with all control over future election inquiries, the House showed a want of regard for, and appreciation of the high character which its tribunals had always maintained. They had always been composed of, and been presided over, by the most trusted Members of the House, in whose hands the honour of the House might be safely left. Under the proposed system, the first notice which the House might receive of an election inquiry was the Report of the Judge to the Speaker that a particular Member had been unseated.
 MR. MORRISON  rose to support the appeal made by the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) to the Govern-
 682
 MR. DENMAN  said, he intended to withdraw it,
 MR. MORRISON  would still suggest to the Committee, as a point of Order, that it was most inconvenient to encourage the practice of Gentlemen making speeches upon the principle of a Bill when once they had got into Committee. Business would be proceeded with much more rapidly and satisfactorily if Gentlemen having opinions which they desired to put forward would advance them at the proper time, and if upon Motions to report Progress or other formal proposals hon. Members would confine themselves more strictly within the four corners of the Motion.
 Mr. DENMAN  said, he was much obliged to his hon. Friend for his lecture. But he must remind him that till that evening he had never had an opportunity of discussing the Bill as a whole. He was quite willing that the Motion to report Progress should be withdrawn.
 THE CHAIRMAN  asked if it was the pleasure of the Committee that the Motion should be withdrawn.
 THE CHAIRMAN  put the Question, "That the Chairman do report Progress."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  asked what course the Government wished the Committee to adopt?
 MR. DISRAELI : I thought I had distinctly expressed the wish of the Government to make progress in Committee, if it be not already too late.
 MR. BOUVERIE , who had given Notice to move to omit all the clauses from 5 to 18 inclusive—which relate to the Presentation and Service of Petitions, the Judges and the Trial of Petitions—for the purpose of inserting new clauses, proposing a different system of procedure, said, that the clauses he proposed to strike out completely ousted the jurisdiction of the House, and to that he had a decided objection. The 5th clause provided that the Petition should, in the first instance, be presented to the Court of Common Pleas, and the
 683 Nisi Prius 684 685
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he had to move an Amendment to the clause, which was the first of a series of Amendments, of which he had given Notice. The Bill, as it stood, was very incomplete; but, at the same time, he thought it, in the main, very creditable to the Government; and therefore he was glad that this Bill was not to be part of the baggage to be thrown overboard, for the purpose of lightening the ship on its last voyage. Incomplete as it was, the Bill was a bold attempt to grapple with an acknowledged political and moral evil; and the Government had not feared to ask the House to do what it greatly disliked—to make a sacrifice of its own jurisdiction. He now asked the Prime Minister to complete his own work—to help those who were trying to help him, and lend the aid of his ingenious and contriving mind, and the able legal assistance with which he was provided, to make this really an efficacious and complete measure. It was no party measure, and no party were interested in passing it, except the party of honesty. They desired to diminish the number of men in this House, who came in, not for the purpose of maintaining any political opinions whatever, but solely for the purpose, by a lavish expenditure, of acquiring the social position which attended a seat in this House, and which, perhaps, was not otherwise to be attained by them. They were not mote attached to one side than to the other, except that they were generally to be found on the gaining side. They were the political counterparts of those who were contemptuously described by Dante as "neither for God nor the enemies of Gou, but for themselves only." Unfortunately, it was not possible in this case to follow the poet's advice, "Speak not of them, but look and pass on!" The Bill proceeded on the theory that the law was to be put in motion by the defeated candidate alone. This was contrary
 686 Vict.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Stuart Mill) that it was desirable that there should be every opportunity of inquiring into extensive corruption prevalent at elections; but he took exception to the proposed mode of effecting that object, and would suggest that it would be more convenient to raise the question by bringing up a distinct new clause. The clause then under consideration related specially to Petitions complaining of undue return of Members; and he thought it would not be well to mix that up with other questions. With regard to the particular Act to which the hon. Member had referred he would find, on inquiry, that it had hitherto been a dead letter. [Mr. BOUVERIE; There has been a case under it.] The right hon. Gentleman said there had been a case under it. If so, he was not aware of it: but, considering that corrupt practices must have prevailed very largely, that one case would only prove that practically the Act had been a dead letter. He was as anxious as the hon. Member for Westminster that corruption, in whatever form or shape, should be put down; but he thought that the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member, while creating some confusion, would not carry out that intention. As to the plan of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kiltmarnock (Mr. Bouverie),
 687 quid prosunt leges sine moribus? hocus pocus 688 scintilla
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  observed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had applied himself to the clause generally. He submitted that it would be a more convenient course for the Committee to confine themselves for the present to the Amendment which had been moved by the hon. Member for Westminster.
 MR. PAULL  pointed out that under the Amendment a Member against whom specific charges were brought would be obliged to defend himself against the general prevalence of corrupt practices during au election at which there might
 689
 MR. HEADLAM  said, much might be urged for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Westminster, who was on the right track, for far more might be done by an indictment against a borough that by a contest for the seat. But at present it would be wise to adopt the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. MONK  thought the Amendment was misunderstood—a Petition need not necessarily be against the return of any Member. He thought it important that the House should sanction the principle that where extensive corruption had been practised the conduct of defeated candidates should not be ignored. For instance, a candidate sent down from London to a borough where he had no chance of election, and where he spent large sums of money in corruption, ought not to be allowed to go unpunished; and if Petitions were allowed to be presented in such cases they would be a great check upon general bribery and corruption.
 MR. LOCKE  objected to the Amendment on the ground that it was unfair to make a candidate liable for general corrupt practices with which he might have had nothing to do. It was a sound principle that a man should only be liable for his own offences.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  opposed the Amendment, not because it might not be expedient to have inquiries nito the general prevalence of corruption, but because the Amendment was foreign to the object of the clause, which was to provide assurance that a Member had been duly returned without corruption on his part. He hoped the hon. Member for Westminster would withdraw the clause, which he thought would rather defeat his object. It seemed to him the result would be to produce interminable inquiries.
 MR. AYRTON  hoped the hon. Member for Westminster would not withdraw the Amendment. In his opinion, the Attorney General did not understand the object of the Amendment. The view of the hon. Member for Westminster was that, besides the successful candidate and the defeated one, there might be certain electors who were indignant at the corrupt practices that had been carried on in the interest of
 690
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the point taken by the hon. Member for Westminster had not escaped the attention of the Committee; but the Committee were unanimously of opinion that it was useless to retain the method appointed by 5 & 6  Vict primâ facie primâ facie
 MR. AYRTON  said, his remarks had reference to the clause which provided: that the Judge might, at the same time, make a special report to the Speaker as to any matter arising in the course of the trial, an account of which ought, in his judgment, to be submitted to the House of Commons.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, his object was that an inquiry into general corrupt practices should be instituted with the same promptitude and before the same tribunal as the inquiry concerning a claim to the seats. He did not mean, however, as the Solicitor General seemed to infer, that the sitting Member should be at the expense of eliciting such a general inquiry. That matter was provided for in his subsequent Amendments.
 MR. LIDDELL  thought a distinction should be made between an inquiry into the right to a seat and an inquiry into general corruption, and that the cost of the general inquiry should be borne by the community.
 MR. WALPOLE  hoped the hon. Member for Westminster would be induced to withdraw his Amendment, and to introduce the subject in a separate clause. It was quite as important that there should be a well-directed inquiry into general corruption as into the right to a seat; but they should take care that they did not transfer to another body any power which belonged peculiarly to that House. The legal right to the seat would be bettor determined by the Judges than by a Committee sitting upstairs; but, if they directed an inquiry into general corruption, which was to be followed by legislation, they should reserve to the House the power of instituting and directing the inquiry. If the general were mixed up with the particular proposition, they would certainly delay the termination to be arrived at.
 MR. HIBBERT  hoped the Government would bring in a clause to effect the object of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Westminster.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, his Amendment would raise the whole question. It was, that the words "Court of Common Pleas" be struck out, and the words "House of Commons" be inserted in the clause. This was the Amendment which he had moved in the Select Committee, and which now stood in the name of the hon. Member for Berwick (Mr. Mitchell), who was not present.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the Amendments of which he had given Notice would in effect also raise the whole question, inasmuch as he proposed that the Election Committee, consisting of Members of the House, should be presided over by a Judge. It would be better to discuss it now.
 MR. DISEAELI  said, the issue was clear, as the House was in Committee and understood the question, he thought they ought to proceed.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, there was this difference between his Amendment and those of his right hon. Friend (the Member for Kilmarnock). His right hon. Friend proposed to deal with the Petition after it was presented; whereas he proposed to raise the question to what tribunal the Petition should be presented. If the House should cease to be that tribunal, it would be the only legislative body in the world exercising no control over the seats of its own Members. Standing, as the House of Commons did, in the position of a self-condemned body, it ought to hand over all its rights and privileges unimpaired to that Parliament which would be elected by the enlarged constituencies. If his Motion were carried, the other Amendment would be unnecessary.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that this was the most important question of the whole Bill, and therefore they ought to have time to consider it. They had not had an opportunity yet of discussing it. He felt strongly upon the matter, and wished to have it fully discussed.
 MR. AYRTON  called attention to the alteration in the wording of the Act it was proposed to repeal and that introduced into the Bill relative to the subject-matter of complaint to be contained in Election Petitions. He asked the Attorney General on a future occasion to give the Committee an explanation.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I have no intention of taking up the discussion at the point at which the hon. Gentleman has left it; but I think the statement made by the First Minister is one that, on this side of the House, we have a right a little to complain of. Now, my view of the discussion on Monday night was this: that it was a very wise thing, as I said then, to go with the great majority of the Scotch Members on a matter with which they were more familiar than the House generally could pretend to be. The Scotch Members in the House being about forty or forty-one on that evening, thirty-five or thirty-six—nearly all—voted in opposition to the view of the Government, and of the four or five who voted with the Government, at least two if not three are members of the Administration or in some Office. Well, now, I think farther, that although the right hon. Gentleman and the House last year had agreed to rating—what we call the ratepaying clauses of the Bill of last year—that in that case he was following the Act of 1832, which has produced enormous inconvenience in England. I have a letter this morning from a gentleman connected with the town of Blackburn, who says that, in consequence of there not being any rate made in that town before the 5th January last, any person in Blackburn occupying a house of any value will be placed on the registry in the autumn of this year. So the system is one which, being connected with a system of voting and the franchise, will create, the more numerous your electoral body, difficulties continually in a great many boroughs. But in Scotland the Reform Act of 1832 did not apply this principle; and therefore think that, as the Scotch Members were of opinion that it would be accompanied with great inconvenience—with even more inconvenience than in England—and as they were nearly unanimous in that opinion, they were the best judges, and that the House was wise in following their advice. But to come to that night's debate—the right hon. Gentleman accepted the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for Northamptonshire—the hon. Member having made up the little difference which existed some time ago. [Sir RAINALD KNIGHTLEY: No, no!] I am sorry to hear that, because like to see harmony in a political party. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, or somebody who acts for him, was well aware of the Notice being
 627 628 Cheers. 629 630 631 632
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSAY  said, the remarks that had just fallen from the hon. Baronet (Sir George Bowyer) were made in the same spirit in which he himself wished very briefly to address the House; for after the taunts thrown out by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock against Conservative country Gentlemen he could not allow his speech to remain wholly unanswered. The right hon. Gentleman said he was astonished that country Gentlemen on that side could continue to support a Government which was conducting public affairs in the more than questionable manner he had described. For his own
 644 Laughter. Spectator, "I was at the same time delighted in observing that deference which the rest of the pack paid to each particular hound, according to the character he had acquired among them. If they were at fault and an old hound of reputation opened but once, he was immediately followed by the whole cry; while a raw dog might have yelped his heart out without being taken notice of." 645
 MR. SCOURFIELD  wished to explain the vote he had give the other night on the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. He voted in the minority against that Motion, and if that had been nega-
 651
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, If it is true that a vessel of only 2,700 tons, the  Glutton, Glutton 652 Hotspur Glutton Hotspur?
 MR. CORRY  said, in reply, that he might venture to avail himself of this opportunity to make an explanation with reference to the name of one of the vessels which, as it stood in the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, was not very-creditable to the good taste of the Admiralty in naval nomenclature. They might hope that if the ship in question should ever be engaged with an enemy she would prove a "Glutton" in the metaphorical sense of the word; but, in fact, her name was not the  Glutton, Glatton,
 LORD STANLEY  said, he regretted to state that the negotiations on this subject had not yet been brought to a final conclusion. The Government were fully alive to the importance of the subject, which continued to occupy their attention. On two occasions there had been a temporary suspension of the negotiations at the urgent request of the Austrian Government, in consideration of the many internal difficulties in which that country was involved, and also in consideration of the sincere desire which it was believed Baron Beust entertained to fulfil the intentions his Government had expressed towards this country. The new Tariff, therefore, could not come into operation upon the 1st of June; but he hoped before long to be able to give the hon. Gentleman and the House more ample and satisfactory information on the subject than lie could do at present. Under what was commonly known as the Favoured Nation Clause, England would derive the benefit of a considerable reduction of duties in the new tariff fixed in the commercial treaty between Austria and the Zollverein.
 LORD STANLEY : I am not informed.
 MR. HERBERT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the case that the Brigade of Guards have very lately been obliged to abandon the usual annual rifle practice at Aldershot on account of some serious defects iii the ammunition, which it is said caused some of the rifles to burst and others to be so damaged us to be useless; and whether he will state to the House the cause of such serious defects; whether any casualties happened to the men on account of them; how many rifles were, damaged; and what steps will be taken to remedy these evils for the future?
 LORD JOHN HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the attention of Government has been called to the reported sale of Iron-clads by the Government of the United States to South American Governments who are now in a state of war; if this be true, whether such an act is consistent with the principles of neutrality laid down by this Country and by the United States; and, whether he will lay upon the Table of the House any Papers connected with the reported sale of such vessels?
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that he had received no official information respecting the alleged sale of Iron-clads by the United States' Government to the South American Governments, and therefore he was not in a position to express any opinion upon the subject.
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, the constabulary of Queenstown had reported some days ago that on the 13th of this month the Rev. Dr. Collis, of Queenstown, had received a letter of the character referred to by the hon. Member. The constabulary were using every endeavour to discover the writer of that letter, and he hoped their exertions would be successful.
 MR. BOUVERIE : I respectfully beg leave to demur to what has been said by the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister—that in the decision at which we arrived on Monday night there was something like misapprehension or surprise. No doubt it is very convenient for the right hon. Gentleman, when he is making an attempt—and I believe it will be an unsuccessful attempt—to induce the House of Commons to swallow a well-considered decision, and to reverse what they have already resolved; it is very convenient, I say, for him to make such a representation. But not only is the fact not so, but I beg leave to say that the fact is the exact contrary to what was stated by the right hon. Gentleman. The more fact mentioned by my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham is conclusive—that out of forty Scotch Members who were present in the House that evening thirty-five voted for it. In short, all who are familiar with the subject, and who know how the matter will work, were practically unanimous. And so far from its being a hasty and sudden impulse of the Scotch Members—and let me say in passing that we, as a body, are not very liable to hasty and sudden impulses—the Amendment which I had the honour to submit, and which was carried, was the result of long and careful deliberation by the great body of the Scotch Members; Notice was given of it, and it was put on the Paper before Easter. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham that if a way out of this difficulty can be found, consistent with the already expressed opinion of the House, and the decided opinion of the Scotch Members backed by the great body of the Liberal Members—if a way can be found out of the difficulty so as to enable the Government to go on with the Bill in a satisfactory manner, well and good. But, as I understood his proposal, the right hon. Gentleman intimated that it was his intention simply to ask the House to reverse the decision which was come to on Monday, and which, as I have paid, was a well-considered and not a hasty one. Now, the Scotch Members, no doubt, with their ordinary prudence and caution, will take time to see what the Amendment of the
 635 636 "Most people wish their enemies to die. That is not my wish at all. My prayer is, give my enemy the gout; let him feel what the pleasure of that is; let him have the stone; let him know what torture is." 637
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he desired to say a few words on this question; and, to put himself in Order, would conclude with a Motion. He should not have ventured to obtrude himself, had he not thought the statement they had just heard would have been more satisfactory if the right hon. Gentleman had told the House that, in the event of his not succeeding in inducing the House to reverse the decision arrived at the other night, Her Majesty's Government would resign. Let hon. Members look back for a moment upon what they had lately seen in that House within the last few days. He would not dwell on the votes on the question of the Irish Church carried by majorities sufficient at any other time to make Government resign their places; but what could they say of the conduct of a Government who had seen the House disallow the proceedings of a Royal Commission, that Royal Commission being appointed by themselves? He would not say that the Instructions to that Royal Commission were not imprudent and unjust ones; but having given those Instructions, and having limited and restricted the Commissioners, he maintained that, by not making their decision the starting point for the decision of that House, but by going through the farce of appointing a select Committee to consider the subject, the Government had shown a disrespect to the Commissioners. Would the House, or the Government, respect the decisions of the Committee? From the way the Government had treated the "whole Boundary business, nothing was
 624 625
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, with the permission of the House I will now state the course which Her Majesty's Government propose to take with reference to the votes which this House arrived at in Committee a few nights ago on the Scotch Reform Bill. In the arduous labour of attempting to re-construct the electoral system of the United Kingdom Her Majesty's Government are not conscious that they have shown any want of sympathy with the claims of Scotland, or any desire not to treat those claims with the utmost respect and with every wish to arrive at a conclusion which would be generally satisfactory to the House. And I am bound to say, on the part of the Government, that those efforts have been appreciated by the Scotch Members, and that we have received from them, especially last year—that is, from Gentlemen who are not politically connected with us—a warm and generous support in carrying the principal provisions of the great English measure. And we are sensible of the value of that support, and in no instance more than in our efforts to establish a household rating franchise, against the opinions of those who would have advocated one on a principle of restriction. When I say "restriction" I mean an arrangement similar to that which was familiarly described last year in this House as a "hard and fast line," and which had been proposed both for England and Scotland. I felt that in those efforts when we have attempted at all times to uphold a rating franchise against any artificial restrictions of the kind, we have received much, support from Members from Scotland who are in no degree connected with myself or my Friends. Now, the other night—on Monday night—two important decisions were arrived at with respect to the Scotch Reform Bill. The first related to the distribution of seats. It is unnecessary for me to remind the House that by the plan which Her Majesty's Government proposed they hoped they might give, if not an adequate, at all events a considerable addition to the representation of Scotland, in a manner
 620 621 622 623
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he wished to proceed with the Telegraphs Bill Ibis Session, and he felt that commercial gentlemen were extremely desirous to see that Bill passed. He also believed that the House would be glad to have the opportunity of passing it; but the only chance of being able to do so would be to have a Morning Sitting; and if the House would assent to that he would endeavour to make arrangements for the purpose.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that the hon. Member for Dudley had four or five times placed Questions of a character similar to that which he now asked upon the Notice Paper, without coming down to the House to enable a reply to be given to them. He thought that this was scarcely the right course for any hon. Member to take. In reply to the first Question of the hon. Member he had to state that Mr. Horatio Huggins had been called to the English Bar, though the Question seemed to imply that he had not been called to that Bar, and was therefore not a fit person to fill the position to which he had been appointed. In answer to the second Question he had to state that Mr. Huggins' judgments had been noticed in that House last year, and that the allegations made against them had been proved to be unfounded; and in answer to the third Question he had to state that communications had been received from Mr. Rainy, whose statements had been inquired into and found to be inaccurate.
 MR. ADDERLEY : I said Questions with respect to West African appointments.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Member for Birmingham had expressed his satisfaction at the present state of things, because Her Majesty's Government, according to the hon. Gentleman, were very useful to the principles which he advocated. It was not surprising that the hon. Gentleman, while thus using the Government for his own purposes, was satisfied that they should continue to hold Office while in a minority. This state of things might not be pleasant to hon. Members on the Government side of the House, but for one definite purpose, he (Mr. Newdegate) thought that Her Majesty's Government should remain in Office. They had carried a Reform Bill for England, and it was their duty, although in a minority, to test the forbearance of the House as to whether they could complete their scheme by carrying Reform Bills for Scotland and Ireland. With respect to the question which had arisen as to the re-distribution of seats in the Bill for Scotland, he had been inclined to vote for the proposal of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley) to take one Member from the smaller boroughs which had two, in order that they might be given to the counties; but when he found that the county Members would not stand together with the object of adding two county Members, one selected from each side of the House, to the Select Committee on Boundaries, he gave the larger and subsequent object up as hopeless, and then he voted distinctly for the alternative of transferring the scats to Scotland. The truth was that the seats for the small boroughs had long been felt to be due either to the counties of England or to Scotland. Under the circumstances he thought the House had done well in
 633 634
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, Whether, in the event of Parliament being dissolved, and an appeal made to the present Constituencies, he would in the new Parliament propose the disestablishment of the Irish Church, and the settlement of that question?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I shall contribute but very slightly to what I may call the personal and almost offensive character of the greater portion of this debate; for I think I shall best consult the dignity of the Ministry itself and that of the House if I abstain from noticing many of the remarks which have been made; and certainly I should be doing wrong to my own feelings were I to attempt to retaliate. But when the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney) stands up and tells us that he imputes to the great body of Gentlemen fitting on this side the House not personal but political dishonesty, and professes, as others have done, that he represents the majority of this House, I must tell him that both he and they are grossly neglecting their duty if, believing what they state, they do not take immediate steps to put an end to an exhibition which they tell us is a disgrace to the country and to the Parliament in which they sit. For such a proceeding I long. When the time shall come to vindicate my personal or political honour, I shall not be wanting, at least, in my efforts to do so. Passing to the subject more immediately under our consideration, I proceed to notice an observation which has fallen from the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock. He states that there was no reason for saying that the division of the other night was sudden and unexpected. Let me speak for myself. There is no question on which I have taken greater interest than that rating and the personal payment of rates should be the foundation of the Parliamentary franchise; but after the division en the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, understanding that further progress with the consideration of the Scotch Reform Bill in Committee would not be pressed that night, I left the House, and only returned—and returned by mere accident—at the last moment, before the division on the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock. I understand that those who represented the party opposite stated to many Friends on the Ministerial side of the House that there was to be no further progress with the Scotch Reform Bill that night, and the consequence was that many Members who would otherwise have remained in
 647 648
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the opinion of the Attorney General on the legality of the award of the Judges of Designs for the new Law Courts had: been received and considered. The Government were of opinion that they might submit to the House any proposition they might think proper upon the subject, and they would consider what that proposition should be.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he had put the Question on the Paper in the exercise of the ordinary privilege of a Member of that House, and he regretted that the Under Secretary had not confined himself to answering it. He should certainly take an early opportunity of bringing the whole subject with reference to these appointments before the House.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to say that this was the first time this Question had been put upon the Paper.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary for State for the Colonies, Whether Mr. Horatio Hugging, recently appointed to the office of Assistant Judge in the Colony of Sierra Leone, has ever been called to the English Bar, and whether he is the same person whose judgments while sitting as sole Judge in the Supreme Court at Sierra Leone were brought under the notice of the House last Session; And whether the Colonial Office has received a Communication from Mr. Rainy, a properly qualified advocate practising at the Bar of that Country, setting forth further facts having reference to that gentleman, and demanding an inquiry?
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head if the Ministry if he would put upon the Paper any alterations which he might intend to make in the Scotch Reform Bill, in addition to those of which lie had given Notice? It wan absolutely necessary that hon. Members should know whether those words are to stand by themselves, or whether they were to be accompanied by any other alterations. He must, however, say one word with reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He said that he was taken by surprise the other evening—that be understood it was not intended to go into Committee on the Scotch Reform Bill on that night. If that was realty the case, he must say that the Scotch Members had the greatest reason to complain. They appealed night after night to allow these Scotch and Irish Bills to go through, and they were told by the Government night after night that their only desire was to wind up the Session at the earliest period, and that the Scotch Reform Bill should stand for a day on which it should really be taken tip. On Monday night, the right hon. Gentleman placed the Boundaries Bill before the Scotch Reform Bill; and now it appeared that, after a division upon ray hon. Friend's the Member for Montrose Motion, he did not intend to go on with the Scotch Reform Bill—for what reasons and with what view lie was entirely unaware. And then, when they agreed to a Resolution respecting a matter relating to Scotland, they were suddenly thrown into a Ministerial crisis. If they were to have a Ministerial crisis on every clause of this Scotch Reform Bill, there were a good many Amendments on the Paper, they would therefore have plenty of them. They did not desire to embarrass the Government by these Amendments. They related to matters of Scotch detail. This matter about the rating was not intended to defeat the Ministers, but to apply to Scotland the principle upon which a Reform Bill could work in that country; and he did not think it reasonable that when the House came to a decision upon such a point, they were to have a Government crisis thrown in their face.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he was in the House on Monday night, and being very suspicious about what was going on he would not go away to dine or pair. "What was the state of the House? The hon. Member for Birmingham said that no questions were asked and no objections taken in opposition to the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie). The reason was there was no one there to take objections. "When he came in he found five Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench, two behind them, and three near him. He also found the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright) pressing for a division. ["Oh!"] He heard that hon. Member frequently say "Divide, divide." Although he was getting old he was very quick of hearing and of eye. The hon. Member urged to-night that as the Scotch Members were agreed the English and Irish Members ought also to agree to pass the Amendment. But why should forty or fifty Scotch Members destroy the principle of the Reform Bill for England? It was not a fact, as had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie), that his Amendment had been fully discussed and duly considered on the Conservative side of the House. No one expected it to come on so early. Many Members were prepared for the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), but there was not the slightest expectation of the Motion of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock coming on. He did hope, notwithstanding the
 641
 MR. OSBORNE : We are again engaged in personal discussion, and we know that nothing so delights the House as baiting a Minister. But, in my mind, this proceeding has gone a little to far; and I think that those hon. Gentlemen who talk so loudly of the honour of Parliament would best consult that honour by not indulging so much in these miserable discussions, which can lead to no practical result. I for one, have no political sympathy with the right hon. Gentlemen who sit on the opposite Benches; but to them I impute no dishonest or dishonourable motives. I have still less sympathy with the hon. Baronet and Tory country Gentleman, the Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) who defends the Ministers on every possible occasion. But this I will say—that neither as a Whig country Gentleman nor as a Tory country Gentleman, but as a sort of nondescript country Gentleman—that if I thought, as the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock thinks, I would not be satisfied with making speeches of the kind he has made, but I would test the opinion of this House by a Vote of Want of Confidence. I say, moreover, as a Member of the Opposition who wishes to transplant the Gentlemen opposite to the more congenial atmosphere of this side of the House, that, whatever steps I might take on that point, I would not be content to come down here night after night interfering with the Public Business; but I would come forward either to support the Motion of the hon. and learned Serjeant the Member for Sligo (Mr. Serjeant Armstrong), or to anticipate that Motion,
 649
 MR. LONG  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been drawn to the following statement of facts—namely, that a clergyman of the United Church of England and Ireland, the Rev. M. A. C. Collis, has been threatened with assassination by a person styling himself "a good Catholic," unless he, Dr. Collis, would undertake to close the Bible Depôt at Queenstown within four days; whether the above statement is correct; and, if so, whether the Government have deemed it their duty to take any steps to discover and to prosecute the person who subscribed the above-mentioned document?
 MR. GRAVES  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If it is his intention to proceed with the Electric Telegraphs Bill this Session?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : Is it a correct supposition that the Treaty between Austria and the Zollverein is fixed to come into operation on the 1st June?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, When the new Tariff will come into operation, which, in the Commercial Treaty between this Country and Austria, was fixed to take date on the 1st January 1867; and especially, whether it will come into operation simultaneously with the new Tariff fixed in the Com-
 653
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that an order has been given for the discontinuance of Presbyterian Service in the Arbour Hill Garrison Chapel in Dublin, where it has been held for the last eighteen years, and for the future celebration of the same in a school-house?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, they were constantly hearing hon. Members on that side of the House taunting the Government with more or less bitterness, on the ground that their retention of Office was calculated to bring the House into a humiliating position. Bat nothing was more calculated to produce that result than language such as had been heard that night from the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). What could be more degrading to the House and the country than the constant practice in which some hon. Members indulged of casting the vilest imputations upon Her Majesty's Government—he did not speak of the present Government in particular. If they were to sit there as an assembly of Gentlemen, they ought to give credit to any Government for acting on principles; of policy in the performance of what they considered to be their duty to the country, Hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House were always telling them that the sole; object of the right hon. Gentleman and; his Colleagues was to retain their places; but if the Opposition were always throwing such imputations on the Government, might not the Government retort by pointing to Members who might be very anxious to succeed them, and might they not say that these hon. Gentlemen were hungry for place? But if hon. Members went on making these imputations and foul aspersions, that House could not fail to be degraded in the eyes of the country and in the eyes of the world. Let them give the right hon. Gentlemen who might sit upon the Treasury Bench credit for holding Office with a sincere desire to perform their duties; and even if they did not believe they were actuated by a sense of duty, let them at least have the good manners to suppose they were, and not make these charges, which degraded the House and the whole country in the eyes of Europe. The hon. Member for Birmingham and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) appeared to suppose that because the Scotch Members were agreed in supporting the Amendment adopted on
 642 643
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, the hon. and gallant Member who had just addressed the House had not dealt with the real difficulty of the present circumstances. He charged the Opposition with imputing unworthy motives to Her Majesty's Government; but the main point to be dealt with was whether the Conservative Members themselves did not disapprove the course pursued by the Government. The statement he ought to have grappled with was what they had heard from the lion. Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley), who said that the Government had carried measures which were disastrous and fatal, and that the great body of the Conservative party so regarded them. That was the light in which they were viewed by the men whom he had been accustomed to look upon as the chief Gentlemen of England. The hon. Baronet the Member for Northamptonshire said that his party had supported measures which they themselves believed to be disastrous. ["No!"] Aye, but they did, though. The hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Loyd Lindsay) charged the Opposition with imputing motives to, and speaking harshly of, their opponents; but he must say, as one of the oldest Members of the House, that he had never heard anything spoken there against hon. Gentlemen opposite which was nearly so violent or so strong as the language used by one of their own most respected Members. The right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) had told them the Treasury Bench ought to be sent to the British Museum as a curiosity, as the Bench for the honour of sitting on which right hon. Gentlemen were willing to sacrifice all other honour. For himself, as a Whig country Gentleman, he said there were things far more important than the transfer of any party from one side of the House to the other; and among those things were the honour of Parliament, political honour and consistency, and the respect which the country should entertain for its representatives. An injury had been done to the character of Parliament. That was what he imputed to hon. Gentlemen opposite, and not any base personal motives, of which he knew nothing. On the contrary, such were the labours undergone by Ministers, who were also Members of that House, and so great the pecuniary sacrifices, by relinquishing profitable pro-
 646
 MR. J. HARDY , as the representative of one of the ten unfortunate boroughs which were condemned on Monday, wished to say a few words. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) had just related a story of Lady Mary Wortley Montague; but he thought a much milder saying was that of Lord Chesterfield, who held that the worst wish he had to an enemy was that he should be married and settled in the country. Now, if the right hon. Gentleman chose to retire into the country he would not be regretted by hon. Members who sat opposite to him. Now, with reference to the proposed alteration of the vote of Monday last—for his own part, he should not be satisfied by the mere rescinding of the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment, for he considered that a vital principle of the English Reform Bill had been attacked by the previous Amendment, affecting ten English seats. Members on both sides were induced last year to support the Reform Bill, under the express condition that there should be no total disfranchisement; and it was a, most monstrous thing that ten English boroughs that had committed no sin should be swept away in order to give additional seats to Scotland. Ten independent English Members were to be sacrificed for the benefit of the most narrow-minded constituencies in the Empire. As for the boasted success of the grouping system, why, such a rude and rigid line was enforced that no independent man dared to offer himself, and if a Scotch Member ventured to show any independence he never appeared in the House again. Everybody knew exactly what the ten additional Scotch Members would be like; they
 638 639
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he neither voted nor paired the other night, and was not pledged on one side or the other; but he did not feel disposed to establish a principle of rating in Scotland that had been hitherto unknown there. He supported the Government on the ratepaying clauses of the English Bill last year, and was in favour of maintaining it; but he could not admit that by agreeing to a different principle for Scotland, they would necessarily weaken the principle adopted for England. The law and circumstances of the two countries were quite different. It appeared to him that the question at issue was one the solution of which only called for a little practical common sense on both sides of the House. What was the object of the Government? That those who were too poor to pay the rates should not be put on the poor-rate book and be eligible to be placed on the register. That was equally the object of the House. He would suggest an addition to the clause providing that all persons exempted from the payment of poor rates should not be placed on the register. Such a provision would only leave out a small number of persons in Scotland; for he had been told that throughout Scotland the rates were collected within 9 per cent, so that the collectors did not allow many persons to leave their rates unpaid. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would accept some such compromise on this question, and he had no doubt that some arrangement satisfactory to both parties might be arrived at.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, it was quite true that the order in question had been given. The Chapel had originally been consecrated as a place of worship in connection with the Church of England, and it was illegal that it should be used for worship by any other denomination. The illegality had not been noticed till a short time since, when the Archbishop of Dublin wrote a letter on the subject; and, in consequence, the order in question had been given, which, if this proceeding has caused any pain, he, for one, deeply regretted.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, it was true that the usual annual rifle practice of the Brigade of Guards at Alder-shot had been interrupted in consequence of five accidents that occurred to the rifles. He believed that that practice was going to be immediately resumed; but he was not prepared to admit that the accidents were caused by any serious defects in the ammunition. One barrel burst, and the other four guns were slightly damaged. The authorities had endeavoured to trace the cause; and certainly in one case, and he believed in more, the cause was the accidental use of cartridges invented when the Snider was first adopted, but which were condemned us defective. At the same time, in one of the five capes it was proved that one of the cartridges now in use was defective, and in consequence 7,000 cartridges were sent down for immediate
 655
 MR. PEASE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the opinion of Her Majesty's Attorney General has been received on the legality of the award of the Judges of Designs for the Law Courts; and what is the nature of that opinion, if delivered to the Treasury?
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, he was a Tory country Gentleman, and he hoped he was as independent and as little influenced by personal motives as the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). No man felt it more deeply and painfully than himself the existing state of things, and the only consideration that induced him to tolerate it was his hope to put a stop once for all to any further agitation on the question of Reform. Last year the Conservative party had made enormous, and, as he thought, most disastrous sacrifices, and he for one deeply regretted the course taken by the Government. Those sacrifices, however, were made, and the only hope was that they would have a little peace for the time to come. He wished to see the Scotch and
 640
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Government can give information as to the present condition of the Mauritius—firstly, in reference to fever; secondly, in reference to the effects of the recent hurricane?
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I am glad, Sir, the right hon. Baronet has called the attention of the House to this subject, as there has been some misapprehension in regard to it. As I understand it, the proposal made by the late Government was that, either by the creation of a new University or by the alteration of the Queen's University, an institution should be created which should have the power of affiliating Colleges other than the Queen's Colleges to itself; and it was proposed to the Government to grant a charter to the Roman Catholic University College in Dublin, the draft of which charter was submitted by the Government to the Roman Catholic prelates. Now, that, I admit, is not clearly set forth in the Memorandum, as the word "College" was inadvertently omitted after the word "University." I am quite ready to admit that the words in my Memorandum have reference to the proposal of the late Government to grant a charter to the Roman Catholic University College in Dublin.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : The hon. Member had better, I think, give notice of his Question.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he would beg to ask, If any later information had been received from the troops than the 18th of April?
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, after the Question that had been put by his hon. Friend the Member for Fermanagh (Captain Archdall), the hon. Member for Westminster would not be surprised if he should ask him a Question, Whether it would not be more in accordance with decorum that the Jamaica Committee, who have hounded down the man who preserved to the British Crown one of our finest colonies, should leave their victim in the hands of their counsel and abstain from appearing on the Bench during a judicial investigation in which they are the prosecutors?
 MAJOR JERVIS  said, he wished to put a Question on this subject to the First Minister of the Crown. It was his (Major Jervis's) duty about eighteen months ago to ask the right hon. Gentleman who was then Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether, in the case of a prosecution of Governor Eyre, the Government meant to afford him that legal assistance which he had a right to expect? He was then informed that the Government meant to do what was right, and that they would render him all the assistance in their power. He now wished to ask, Whether, under all the circumstances, it was still the intention of the Government to afford ex-Governor Eyre, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, that legal assistance to which a man in his position was entitled at their hands; or whether it was to be understood for the future that a man who undertook the defence of a Colony rendered himself liable to be put in the felon's dock without re-
 718
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : I will again ask the hon. Member for Westminster the Question I have addressed to him on Monday next, and I hope he will be prepared to give me an answer.
 MAJOR JERVIS : As I have not received an answer, I will put my Question on the Paper, and ask it again.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the first account of the fall of Magdala was contained in a Despatch received directly from any British authority in Egypt? He asked the Question, because it had been stated—and not contradicted—that the news of the fall of Magdala was known to the Emperor of the French twenty-four hours before it was known to Her Majesty's Government.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he entirely concurred in the view taken by the hon. Member. Whatever might have been the merits of the "Aberdeen Act," it had
 719
 MR. GLADSTONE , in rising to move that this Bill be now read a second time, said: Sir, I cannot do otherwise than re-cognize the great courtesy of hon. Members universally in refraining from occupying the time of the House with preliminary discussions, and also the justice of the remark made by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) with reference to the anomalous position in which I stand as the mover of a Bill upon a great question of national policy, which, under all ordinary circumstances, if entertained by the House at all, would be in the hands of the Government of the day. I do not propose to enter upon any explanation of that anomaly, because it would lead to a discussion of deeper matters extraneous to the debate that is now about to take place, and which, whether they require to be discussed or not, I am very anxious to keep apart from all debate on the merits of this Bill. I think I shall not have occasion to detain the House at any great length; but so much interest is felt on this subject, and it is so difficult to possess the public mind clearly, even with propositions which one has endeavoured to state in the most explicit form—and of that difficulty I receive such constant testimony—that I should wish to remind the House, and those who may become acquainted with its discussions, of the exact position in which I, at least, and I think others on this side of the House, conceive the question to stand. It appears that at the commencement of the present Session Her Majesty's Government were of one mind with those who sit on this side of the House in the opinion that it was not possible—or, at least, that it was not politic or desirable—to maintain the existing religious and ecclesiastical arrangements in Ireland. Accordingly, when Her Majesty's Government proceeded, through the mouth of the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo) to state to Parliament their policy for Ireland, they intimated that they were disposed to favour extensive plans of change. An earnest of these plans was given in the shape of a proposal with respect to a Roman Catholic University, and their general character was indicated in two parts of the speech
 721 Regium Donum, 722 Regium Donum 723 724 725 726 727 Cheers 728 729
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY*  The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) began his address on this occasion by laying the foundation, as he said, in the conduct of Her Majesty's Government. Now, I do not intend in the outset to accept the statement which he has made of our intentions, nor the interpretation he has thought proper to put upon words used on a former occasion by my noble Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman has stated that religious equality was put forward by my noble Friend as the basis upon which we were going to act. I venture, however, to say that throughout the whole discussion that occurred, and in which I took part, religious equality was argued upon as a thing which could not be made the groundwork of measures like these without its being also made the groundwork of an attack on the English Establishment, and that therefore it was a thing we did not recognize nor make the basis of our policy. Moreover, the only measure which we brought forward in this House indicative of the policy of Her Majesty's Government with respect to any religious institution in Ireland was with respect to a Roman Catholic University. It was proposed to charter a Roman Catholic University in Ireland, and, the Correspondence on the subject being on the table, the
 730 Regium Donum A laugh. 731 "Whereas Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to signify that She has placed at the dis-
 732 733 734 ipso facto "He had never thought that Oath bound the King to maintain the Church and all its members in possession of every right and privilege which they might have possessed in 1688. It did bind him to consult all the essential interests of the Church, to provide to the utmost of his power for its security; but it left a discretion to take the course which the King in his conscience might believe best for those interests and that security." 735 736 737 738 739 740 741 "Such as may conduce to the advancement of religion, and the efficiency, permanence, and stability of the United Church." 742 743 "What would be move calculated than the passing of such a, measure to inspire with fresh coinage and confidence that hostile band of men, neither few in numbers nor contemptible for talents and influence, who view the Protestant Establishment in both countries with feelings of malignant hostility, who meditate its destruction, who, either by storm or sap, by force or fraud, by open and manly hostility, which it is easy to encounter and resist, or by insinuations and inuendoes and false reproaches, with which it is painful and difficult for honourable men to contend, are bent upon effecting the subversion of the Protestant Church of England, but who
 744 Nonconformist, Nonconformist, 745 746 "By the gratitude you owe to that Church from which you have imbibed your Christian principles and knowledge, in whose consolations I trust you delight (and may you experience all their efficacy at the closing hour of your existence), I implore you not to give your consent to a measure which will destroy the Protestant Church in Ireland without benefiting the poor Roman Catholic population; which will starve the meritorious dispensers of God's truth without adding to the comforts of those who are engaged in diffusing religious knowledge under. I different form; a measure of which it is not too much to say that it commences with spoliation and sacrilege, and must end in ruin and confusion."
 MR. VERNER  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) appeared to have given himself over to the Ultramontanes and the voluntaries, who arrived by cross roads at one point—namely, the disestablishment of the Irish Church. It had been for centuries the object of the Church of Rome to humiliate England, because of the high and honourable position assumed by her as the champion of truth against error. He knew that for saying this he should be put down—as a noble Lord expressed it in a late debate—as an uncivilized being using the bludgeon of argument. As such he was prepared to stand there. He contended that at present religions equality was enjoyed in Ireland. Practically, there was no prohibition to the entertainment and exercise of the peculiar views of every religious sect in that country. Would Roman Catholic ascendancy be equally tolerant? If they did away with the privileges pertaining to the outward position and manifestation of the Protestant Esablished Church, would they not at the same time do away with the fundamental principle of the Monarchy, and up heave the pillars of the Constitution? He might quote the testimony of Roman Catholic laymen upon this point. That given by the late Right Hon. Anthony Blake was peculiarly strong. He stated before a Committee of the House of Commons that the Established Church was rooted in the Constitution, being established by the fundamental laws of the realm; and that, in his opinion, it could not be disturbed without danger to the general securities for liberty, property, and order in this country. He could not regard this measure as other than an infringement of the Act of Union—a positive breach of faith, unjust to English as well as Irish Protestants. But the Church of Ireland did not rest on the Act of Union alone, for it had been united ecclesiastically with the Church of England ever since the year 1172. There appeared to be many on the Benches opposite anxious to prove that the proceedings of Parliament were a farce; for they had been told that the most solemn Acts of the Legislature were little better than waste paper, and nothing was binding to-morrow that was done to-day. But this was a two-edged
 765 s. 766
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, he must enter his protest against the Bill. It professed to aim only at the disestablishment of the Irish Church; but it was the opinion of many hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House that a disestablishment of what was inaccurately called the Irish Chinch must lead sooner or later to a disestablishment of the English Church. The truth of that warning was conclusively shown by the words uttered by the great defender of the faith who had just addressed the House. The hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) had told the House that he was going to vote for this Bill, because it was time to put an end to parsons of all denominations, and to establish free trade in religion. The hon. Member was an instance of the strange supporters that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for
 769 770 "The union is to the Church of secondary, though great, importance; her foundations are on the holy hills; her charter is legibly divine. She, if she should be excluded from the precincts of Government, may still fulfil all her functions, and carry them out to perfection. Her condition would be anything rather than pitiable should she once more occupy the position which she held before the reign of Constantine." 771 "But the State in rejecting her would actively repudiate its most solemn duty, and would, if the connection is sound, entail on itself a curse." "Sed fugit interea, fugit irreparabile tempus, Singula dum capti circumvectamur amore."
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, he hoped the House would not be induced to defer legislation on this subject to another Parliament. It was of vast importance that the hopes which had been excited in Ireland should not be disappointed by the barren result of mere abstract Resolutions. As an Irish Roman Catholic, and speaking for his Catholic fellow-subjects, he declared that, in supporting the present Motion, they were not lending themselves to any attack upon the Protestant Church or Protestant institutions of England. He had never heard of such a suggestion coming from any body or from any individual; nor had he, indeed, ever heard any argument adduced by an Irish Roman Catholic in favour of the disestablishment of the Irish Church which would apply equally to the English Establishment. He believed that the present condition of Ireland impaired
 772 773 774
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I think I may say, without fear of contradiction, that no criticisms of any moment have been made upon the mere form, expressions, and particulars of the Bill that is before the House. ["Oh!"  and Cheers. 797 798 Regium Donum, 799 800 "There would not be, I believe, any objection to make all Churches equal; but the result must be secured by elevation and not by confiscation." 801 Laughter, and 802 803 and "Let the State, if she will, break the most solemn contracts. Let her violate the Act of Union, let them call on the Queen to violate her Coronation Oath." 804 "Let the Church be disendowed and disestablished. The State did not make the Church, and the State could not un-Church. If this did unhappily take place, she would attract to herself the sympathy of the Church of England, and by such an agency as that society, which would become more than ever necessary, the truth of God would be more and more diffused through the length and breadth of the land, and many valuable souls would be brought to know the Lord Jesus Christ." 805 806
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I hope the House will permit me to trespass upon
 807 Regium Donum, 808 Regium Donum 809
 LORD ELCHO : I can assure the House that I shall trouble them but for a few moments, and in doing so I shall not attempt to follow the hon. and learned Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Serjeant Barry) in his argument as to whether there is a crisis in Ireland sufficient to justify the course of policy pursued by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), or whether the policy of the right hon. Gentleman will or will not put an end to dissatisfaction in Ireland, or will maintain or do away with the Union. On that point I hold a very strong opinion, which I have ventured to express before—that logically this Bill leads to the disestablishment of all Churches or to the repeal of the Union. Now, I am opposed to this Bill, because it appears to me to be a stretch of the power of a majority to force this legislation through this House. It is a stretch in this way—I do not believe it to be necessary, and, certainly, such a course is unprecedented; it is logically the result of the circumstance that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South
 780 781 "Sir Colman O'Loghlen,—In Committee on Promissory Oaths Bill:—To move the following Clause:—(Sovereigns of Great Britain and Ireland, after the passing of this Act, shall not be required to take the Declaration against Transubstantiation, &c. at their Coronation or at any Other time.)" "After the passing of this Act no Sovereign of Great Britain and Ireland shall be required to take, make, or subscribe at his Coronation, or on the first day of his first Parliament, whichever shall first happen, or any other time, the Declaration commonly called the Declaration against Transubstantiation and the Invocation of Saints and the Sacrifice of the Mass as practised in the Church of Rome, anything in the Bill of Rights or Act of Settlement to the contrary in anywise notwithstanding." 782 laughter. 783
 MR. LIDDELL : I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon. What I said was, that they cherished no antagonism to the Church.
 MR. LIDDELL  admitted that there was some force in the ingenious argument that the Bill might be supported by those who wished simply for modifications in the Irish Church; but, its avowed purpose being disestablishment and disendowment, he must strenuously oppose it. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed a hope that the other House would be guided by an enlightened prudence in dealing with this Bill. Now, he hoped they would be guided by the dictates of principle, and would not forget the duty they owed as an important branch of a Protestant Legislature to a Protestant people. The right hon. Gentleman was a distinguished disciple of a distinguished school of politicians, against whom his (Mr. Liddell's) only complaint was that they had shown themselves at times too apt to sacrifice principle to that species of political prudence called expediency, and he thought the latter consideration had weighed with the right hon. Gentleman and had made him forget Protestant principles. Nobody believed that this question would be finally settled by the present Parliament. All admitted that it must be remitted to the new constituencies. Surely, then, these discussions were a sheer waste of time, and this charge, he thought, the right hon. Gentleman had quite failed to rebut. The right hon. Gentleman had restated to-night an argument already used by him—he had said that he was surprised at the friends of the Church expressing alarm at the prospect before them in the event of disestablishment. But, was it surprising that apprehension should be felt that the Church of a scattered minority should be unable to maintain itself? He opposed this measure on three clear and distinct grounds, that the separation of the Irish Church from the State would be unjust, unwise, and unnecessary. It was unjust, because nothing would persuade him that, under the specious pretext of doing justice to Ireland, they ought to in-
 756 757
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to give one word of explanation to make his Question intelligible. It appeared that retired Captains in the Army were not allowed to wear their uniform at Court, but if they had medals they must either wear them over their Court-dress or leave them at home. He would, therefore, beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether there would be any objection to put those Officers who had retired from the Army as Captains on the same footing as regards uniform as those who had retired as Field Officers?
 MR. BAILLIE-COCHRANE  said, he would defer to the wishes of the House and postpone the Notice he had given to call the attention of the House to the circumstance that the daughters of Seamen killed or disabled in the service of the Country do not enjoy the privilege of maintenance and education at Greenwich Hospital. At the same time, he would call the attention of the Government to the position of private Members, who were continually compelled to postpone important Motions on matters which ought to be discussed. Of course, private Members ought to give way when questions of general interest were brought forward by the Government; but now they had to give way for private Members and measures they did not approve. He was happy to defer to the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) and the important question raised by him; but the House ought to consider the position of private Members. He would postpone his Motion to Friday, the 5th of June.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that no information with regard to the Expedition had been laid before the House. He wished to know, Whether the Despatches already re-
 717
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would withdraw his Notice, "To call attention to the Act of the 8th and 9th Victoria, chapter 122, commonly known as the 'Aberdeen Act,' and to move, That in the opinion of this House the time is now come for the repeal of that Act." He understood that the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office was willing to accept it, and desired to bring in a Bill to effect the object he had in view.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman who moved the second reading of the Bill this evening seemed to complain very much that I should offer any opposition to his Motion, on the ground that the Ministry had not opposed the 2nd and 3rd Resolutions, which he previously moved. We did not oppose those Resolutions, because, as I described them, we looked on them as being corollaries of the 1st Resolution; and the right hon. Gentleman admitted the justness of that description. It does not follow that, when you oppose a policy, you are bound to oppose it on every stage. Common courtesy and the common sense of the House teach us that such a way of conducting public business would be utterly impracticable. We had taken on the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman two divisions in full Houses, and, therefore, I only followed Parliamentary custom in announcing that though we objected to the 2nd and 3rd Resolutions as strongly as to the 1st, yet we should be content not to take any formal division on them, expressing only our protest against them; but that we should reserve our Parliamen-
 788 "Not only am I astonished that you oppose the Bill, but I had every reason to believe that you would deem it your policy and an advantage to support it; because you have consented to the appointment of a Committee to investigate the condition of the Irish Church, and as you yourselves admit the possibility of the Committee proposing considerable modifications in the temporalities of the Irish Church, what could be more convenient than that in the meantime you should pass a Suspensory Bill which would prevent the creation of any new vested interest, which it would be very inconvenient for you to have to deal with by after legislation." 789 790 791 Regium Donum. Regium Donum 792 Regium Donum Regium Donum: Regium Donum Regium Donum Regium Donum. Regium Donum Regium Donum? Regium Donum Regium Donum. status 793 794 795 796 and Cheers
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the whole subject of Irish Railways has been investigated by the Commission, the Report of which has now been for some time under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government. We do not propose to submit to the Commissioners for Report the proposals on the Irish Railway system drawn up last year by a Committee of Irish Peers and Mem-
 713
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that the latest accounts from the island were dated the 16th of April, and were received on the 16th of May. Those accounts were, on the whole, favourable. The fever was on the decrease. As to the hurricane, it was the most destructive that had been known during the present generation. Great injury had been done to the crops;
 714
 MR. NEATE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the second battalion of the 60th Regiment, containing from two hundred to two hundred and fifty raw recruits, has not been recently landed in India, and is now now detained at Fort William; whether the cholera has not broken out at that station; whether, in consequence of the insufficiency of the medical staff, a special medical man, not belonging to the Regiment, has not been appointed "to take charge of it;" whether many deaths from cholera have not taken place in the Regiment; whether the station is not considered an unhealthy one, and whether fresh recruits are not more liable than others to its unhealthy influence; and what reason there is for detaining at that station the battalion of the 60th Regiment?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  attempted to address the House, but was inaudible in consequence of persistent cries of "Divide!" and "Question!"
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH , who had given Notice to call attention to Rule 164 of "The Rules, Orders, and Forms of Proceedings of the House of Commons," and to its frequent infraction or evasion; and to move that it be rescinded, said, he was always ready to defer to the wish of the House on all proper occasions, and if the House were equally forbearing they might get on better together. He would consent to postpone his Motion, presuming that the Government would postpone Supply.
 MR. REARDEN : I beg very earnestly to apologize to the House for putting a Question in any form of words which is either un-Parliamentary or not in strict accordance with the views of this House.
 712
 MR. REARDEN : Sir, I beg to give Notice that on Monday next I shall ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it be true that Her Majesty the Queen has been compelled, through delicate health, to retire from England during the remainder of this Session; and, if so, whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government, out of consideration to Her Majesty's health, comfort, and tranquillity, and in the interest of the Royal Family and of Her Majesty's subjects throughout the Empire, and especially of this metropolis [ Loud cries of
 MR. SYNAN : I cannot but feel, as every Member of the House must by this time feel, that it is very difficult to offer anything new on the subject under discussion, and that it is most wearisome to hear the same statements, the same expressions of opinion, and the same arguments repeated. I shall, however, in the little I have to say confine myself as much as possible to observations in reply to the hon. Member for Londonderry, and the hon. Member for Northumberland, and
 758 759 perfect reductio ad absurdum. s. 760 s. d. s. s. d. s. 761
 MR. SYNAN : In that opinion I can fully agree with the hon. Gentleman. I know my country well; and he is right in saying that no class in Ireland felt animosity against the Church Establishment. What they do feel, however—and what they would be the veriest slaves on the face of the earth if they did not feel—is the inferiority of their position. That they do most deeply feel; and if they did not feel it, the iron of slavery would have entered their souls. They feel the rule of Protestant ascendancy above them; the foundation of that ascendancy is the Established Church of Ireland, and until you throw that barrier that separates one class
 762 763 764
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Then all I have to say is that it was not upon this Bill that I referred to the opinion of an eminent lawyer; but upon the Bill which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to introduce for the disestablishment of the Church in Ireland.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The right hon. and learned Member did give way.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I said I would not assume what changes might be made; and that therefore this Bill might not be at all suitable to them. I did not say that no changes would be made.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The right hon. and learned Gentleman misrepresents me so frequently that I am obliged to interrupt him. ["Order!"] I shall not be put down in stating that I have been misrepresented. I was misrepresented with respect to France. I did not say anything about religious equality in France. ["Order!"] I wish to make a personal explanation simply.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in replying, said, he must take the liberty to remark that this was, he believed, the fourth occasion during the last two months on which the hon. Member had placed this Question on the Notice Paper. Now, considering the terms with which the Question concluded, he thought it scarcely fair to repeat the Question so often without explanation. It was not the intention of the Government to amalgamate the Customs extra clerks with the establishment clerks. It was impossible to do so, consistently with the rules of the service. Moreover the scale of pay of the extra clerks had been considered by the Treasury two years ago, and he was not prepared to say that if it were again considered there would be any change in the decision arrived at in 1866.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that, in reply to the hon. Member for Lisburn (Mr. Verner), he would advance two or three reasons for supporting the second reading of this Bill. He maintained that nothing could be more unsound, in the apprehension of every lawyer who had studied our Constitution, than the view of those who held that the Church of England and Ireland formed any part of that Constitution. That Church was as distinct and separate from the Constitution itself as was the army and navy, or any other institution of the country. The Established Church in England and in Ireland was nothing more than an experiment with the view of encouraging what he might call a religion of home growth instead of a religion connected with and recognizing an external authority. The principle of our Constitution was that no foreign Prince, prelate, or potentate should exact tithe, or toll, or exercise any interference in this realm, and to that the Crown was pledged; and, but for the weak props and buttresses by which, after the Revolution of 1688, it was sought to bolster up that artificial and anomalous institution, the Established Church in England and in Ireland, that institution could have no position or strength in the country. In confirmation of his statement that the Church was separate from the Constitution, he would refer to the fact that, in 1405, 1410, and 1414, the House of Commons declared that it was contrary to the Constitution that money should be applied by the State for the purpose of supporting any religion; and they also declared that all ecclesiastical endowments should be devoted to the service of the State. In 1423, household suffrage was done away
 767 s. 768
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of the Government to amalgamate the Customs' Extra Clerks with the establishment, or place them in receipt of such a scale of pay as will place them on a footing with the establishment and enable them to provide for their families?
 MR. LAWSON  said, he desired to call the attention of the House to some statements made by the right hon. Gentleman, which he thought were the most remarkable that had ever proceeded from a Cabinet Minister in that House. His right hon. Friend the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) had justified himself in propounding a policy with respect to the Church of Ireland, on the ground that a policy of a different character had been proposed by the noble Earl the Chief Secretary for Ireland on an occasion when he must be supposed to have spoken the well-considered opinion of his Colleagues. It would be remembered that, after the change in the Ministry, a noble Duke in "another place" stated that the next evening the noble Earl would explain the policy of Her Majesty's Government with respect to Ireland. The noble Earl then said—
 "There would not, I believe, be any objection to make all Churches equal in Ireland; but the result must be secured by elevation, and not by confiscation. Our policy is to make, and not to destroy." Regium Donum, Regium Donum 748
 MR. LAWSON  asked, whether the House had understood that to be the assertion of the right hon. Gentleman with reference to the opinion of this nameless lawyer; and whether, if so, it was germane to the matter now in hand? The right hon. Gentleman, no doubt, saw the absurdity in what such an argument would involve him, because if this measure amounted  ipso facto 750 751 "That in regulating the salary of the officiating minister regard should be had to the nature and extent of the duties to be discharged." 752 753
 MR. LAWSON  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the admission. Then the right hon. Gentleman left the argument of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire entirely unanswered. It was admitted that the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs spoke the sentiments of the Government when he said that considerable modifications in the temporalities of the Irish Church might, after pending inquiry, be found. Did the House remember the language of the noble Lord, who said he would not for a moment justify the abuses and anomalies which existed in the Irish Church? If considerable modifications were to be made—if bishoprics and benefices were to be reduced, what was the argument against the Bill? The right hon. Gentleman spoke of the case of the poor curate; but he left the Bishops out of his calculation altogether. Seeing that in Munster and Connaught only 3 and 4 per cent of the population were members of the Established Church, was it not worth while to prevent the creation of new vested interests by the filling up of vacancies—even in anticipation of the correction of those abuses the existence of which was admitted by the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary? There were several bishoprics in those provinces; and if one of those fell vacant and this Bill had not passed, there would be created a new vested interest of a Bishop to administer to the wants of a few scattered Anglicans in that district. The right hon. Gentleman was now trying to disconnect himself from the policy of increasing the  Regium Donum 749
 MR. LAWSON  said, the right hon. Gentleman rose to explain with reference to the opinion of an eminent lawyer on this Bill.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the despatches received from Sir Robert Napier will be published?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the rule with regard to Questions was, that Questions are permitted to be put to Ministers of the Crown relating to public affairs, and to other Members relating to any Bill or Motion connected with the Business of the House, in which such Members may be concerned.
 MR. SPEAKER : The House has anticipated my decision by the expression—the indignant expression of feeling with regard to the terms employed in the Notice of the hon. Member. No doubt Questions may be addressed by a Member of this House to the confidential Advisers of the Crown as to any matter relating to the discharge of public duties by the Sovereign; but these questions must be addressed in respectful and Parliamentary terms. The Question of the hon. Member is not couched in such terms, and cannot be put.
 MR. SPEAKER : Then the explanation should be confined to the single point.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Member is aware that the rule of the House is that it is at the option of the Member in possession of the House to give way or not to an immediate explanation.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask what were the intentions of the present Government?
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL : I wish, Sir, to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government. Assuming that the Abyssinian Expedition was organized for the sole purpose of releasing certain of Her Majesty's subjects who had been taken prisoners and kept in
 716 post facto
 MR. MURPHY  said, that, as a Roman Catholic Member representing a not unimportant constituency, he was anxious to
 778 779 "I have no desire to see the connection between Church and State in Ireland continued for one week longer."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, that the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) had argued that the 2nd and 3rd Resolutions were corollaries of the 1st, and that this measure ought to be accepted as a corollary of the Resolutions. But it was one thing to pass an abstract Resolution and another thing to introduce a measure of active legislation. A Suspensory Bill assumed that the other House of Parliament as well as that House would disendow and disestablish the Church of Ireland, but he trusted that was an event which never would occur. The Government did not believe that the people of the United Kingdom would consent to the disendowment or disestablishment of the Established Church in Ireland, and were quite prepared to appeal from this moribund House of Commons to a higher tribunal—the Commons of the United Kingdom: and he was sure this appeal would not be in vain, whether it were made to the present or the new constituencies. Burke, writing to Sir Hercules Langrish upon the Union, said—
 "The people of Great Britain might be depended upon in cases of any real danger to aid the Government of Ireland against any wicked attempts to shake the security of the happy constitution in Church and State." 776 "We should never lose sight of this, and it is the very corner-stone upon which the Establishment rests, that it is not the 'Chinch of Ireland' at all, but that it is the United Church of England and Ireland—and that, is such, it is to be dealt with. And let no man dare to bring forward in Parliament any Motion relating to the revenues or property of the Church without including in it that of which we are a part—the Church of England." 777 "I will go no further, but to say that whatever is done, if a single sixpence is given by Parliament in lieu of the Maynooth Grant or in lieu of the  Regium Donum, Hansard,
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the noble Lord who had just sat down had taken great pains to prove his right to the title of an independent Member, but he could assure him that he had put himself to unnecessary trouble. The noble Lord had stated that his sympathies were generally on the Liberal side, but if that were the case, he certainly exercised a most remarkable control over himself by not yielding to those sympathies. He could assure the House that he would detain them but a few minutes while he made a few observations on the Bill before them. Although feeling deeply upon the question of the Established Church in Ireland, he had not taken part in any of the debates which had occurred upon the subject, and he should not have risen upon that occasion had it not been for one remark which fell from the Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Warren) just before he sat down, in which he expressed his surprise that hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House could suppose that they were doing anything by this course of legislation to stay the discontent which existed in Ireland. In that remark lay the whole drift of the question, and he would shortly state why he thought they were doing a great deal to still the discontent in that country. A great deal had been said about the Act of Union. The noble Lord who had just sat down said, he believed the Union would be in danger if this legislation were carried into effect; but he, on the contrary, believed that the Union would be
 784 785 786 787
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Report of the Commissioners upon Irish Railways has been considered by Her Majesty's Government, and whether they propose to submit to those Commissioners for Report the proposals on the Irish Railway system drawn up last year by a Committee of Irish Peers and Members of Parliament; and, if not, what steps it is proposed by the Government to take with regard to the Irish Railways?
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  contended that those who sat on that (the Ministerial) side of the House were justified in the resistance which they were prepared to offer to the Bill. No battle was hopeless until it was lost, and if the decision of the House was against the Irish Church that decision would be reversed by the country. He believed that the main reason which had induced the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) to bring forward the measure was the emergency of party, he confessed that it was with surprise he heard the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State say that the question of the  Regium Donum Regium Donum 754 755
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there was no mistake as to the first part of the statement; but the noble Lord had not quite correctly stated the intentions of the late Government, which were expressed verbally and in correspondence.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the intentions of the late Government did not appear to him to be sufficiently explained with regard to the Roman Catholic University in the Memorandum of the Chief Secretary for Ireland which had lately been laid on the table. In order to bring out their views more clearly, he would beg to put the Question of which he had given Notice. With reference to the statement contained in the Memorandum laid before the House in the Correspondence relative to the proposed charter for a Roman Catholic University, that the charter, the draft of which was under the consideration of the late Government, was a charter for the Roman Catholic University, to ask, Whether the attention of the Chief Secre-
 715
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that the rule on the subject was not quite so extensive as the hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose. With regard to retired Captains, he might remark that their number was very large, and their names did not appear in the  Army List.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that the Regiment referred to by the hon. Member arrived at Fort William on the 31st of October last, just at the beginning of the cold and healthy season. No information had been received as to cholera, or which related in any way to the health of the Regiment. He was unable to explain why the troops were sent to Fort William, as that was a matter which rested with the local authorities.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that a collection of the despatches of Sir Robert Napier from the time the troops landed in Abyssinia until now were in course of preparation, and would be laid upon the table, bringing the information down to the latest date, and will be in the hands of hon. Members before the Vote of Thanks is proposed.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the despatches received from Sir Robert Napier were extremely short, nothing more in fact than the telegraphic despatches which had been published communicating the facts of the release of the captives, the storming of Magdala, and the death of the King. A subsequent despatch announced that the troops were on their way home. There was some reason to suppose that despatches had been written and sent, but which, however, had not yet reached the Government. It was, however, hoped that they would be received before the Motion of which his right hon. Friend the First Minister had given Notice. But the information which the Government already possessed was sufficient to justify that Motion. The circumstances of the campaign were peculiar in this respect, that they had received information by telegraph which of course anticipated the written despatches.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the last telegram received by the Government was dated the 18th April, and the troops were then encamped on the plateau of Dalanta.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that he was unable to state when the news was known in Paris; but it reached him in the ordinary way by a direct telegram from Sir Robert Napier, sent  viâ
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : My object is that the country should know that the Jamaica Committee wish to have it supposed that there are large sums at the disposal of Governor Eyre, and that no money is required for his defence. In that respect the letter was most unfair to Governor Eyre, and I trust it will be reported to the whole country that the statement is not correct.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would suggest to the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) that the best course would be to postpone his Amendment until the Committee had considered the proposed additions to the clause. The way in which this matter of the lodger franchise had been introduced into the English Bill, was by making it the subject of a separate clause; and he was perfectly willing to bring up a clause, in exactly the same form as that of the English Bill, conferring the lodger franchise in Scotch burghs.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was satisfied with that undertaking.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was sorry he could not agree to the Amendment proposed. Its effect would be to limit, and that in a most objectionable manner, the franchise conferred by the Bill. The Valuation Act provided that there should
 841 "Provided always that it shall be in the power of such Commissioners or Magistrates, if they deem fit, not to insert in any Valuation Roll under this Act the names or residences of the tenants of any lands or heritages on rentals not amounting to £4 per annum."
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had no intention or desire to limit the franchise, and he believed that his Amendment would not have that effect; because the Valuation Act did not give the magistrates the option of removing persons from the roll, but only empowered them to remove the names of those who claimed exemption on the ground of inability to pay. The Amendment, taken in connection with other Amendments which he should propose in a subsequent clause, would not interfere with those of which the Lord Advocate had given notice.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Member would not press his Motion.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, I rise for the purpose of proposing the Amendments in this 3rd clause that stand in my name. On Monday last the Committee struck out the 3rd and 4th sub divisions of the clause. The 3rd sub-division is not of much consequence to the Scotch Bill, for there is no system of compounding in Scotland. In Scotland the inhabitants of all; dwelling-houses are liable to be put on the parish rate book, and therefore it is not material to go back on that decision of the Committee; but I think that the change effected in the Bill by striking out the 4th sub-division is one of material importance to the principle on which this Bill is founded. The Bill is founded on the same principle as the English Bill. In Scotland there is a power of exempting persons from payment of the poor rate upon the ground of their poverty or inability to pay; and in order to bring the Scotch Bill into harmony with the provisions of the English Act, we; propose a proviso which is to be found in the Notice Paper. This proviso contains three branches. The first runs in this
 842 "Who shall have been exempted from assessment or payment of poor rates on the ground of inability to pay." "Or who shall have failed to pay, on or before the first day of August in the present or the twentieth day of July in any subsequent year, all poor rates (if any) that have become payable by him, in respect of said dwelling-house, or as an inhabitant of paid burgh, up to the preceding fifteenth day of May." "Or who shall have been in the receipt of parochial relief within the twelve calendar months next preceding the said last day of July." 843 "Who shall have been exempted from assessment or payment of poor rates on the ground of inability to pay; or who shall have failed to pay, on or before the first day of August in the present or the twentieth day of July in any subsequent year, all poor rates (if any) that have become payable by him, in respect of said dwelling-house or as an inhabitant of said burgh, up to the preceding fifteenth day of May; or who shall have been in the receipt of parochial relief within the twelve calendar months next preceding the said last day of July: Provided also, That no man shall under this section be entitled to be registered as a voter."—( The Lord Advocate.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that in England every householder was assessed to the poor rates, and he understood that to be the case in Scotland. ["No, no!"] Then how could the law in England and Scotland be the same? He wished to know whether every householder in a burgh in Scotland was not entitled to be placed upon the rate book?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that such was his understanding of the law. Under the 40th section of the Poor Law Act tenants of all lands and tenements without limitation were directed to be placed upon the poor rate book, and he knew of nothing in the law of Scotland which prevented the operation of that section in that country.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he thought it only reasonable that he should explain what appeared to him to be the position of the Bill with regard to the Amendment now proposed, and of the Scotch Members with regard to it. The other night the House came to a very important vote, after a full discussion, and in a remarkably full House. That vote was taken upon the 3rd and 4th sub-divisions of the burgh enfranchising clause, which made payment of poor rates a condition of the possession of a vote. The House came to the conclusion that those two sub-divisions ought not to remain in the Bill. The Amendment under which this Resolution was come to had been placed on the Paper by his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), and had stood there for a considerable time along with other Amendments. Now, it seemed to be suggested the other day that the Scotch Members had some design in this, and that their object was to put the Government in an embarrassment. He could only say that nothing could be further from their intentions. He did not mean to say that if they had supposed the Government would
 844 845 846 847
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that there was a considerable variation in the Scotch and English Reform Bills in the time allowed for the payment of rates. He could see no reason why the 15th of May should be fixed as the time up to which rates must be paid in Scotland, while in England it was the 5th of January. He could not understand why the rein should be drawn tighter in the case of one country than it was in the case of the other, and he therefore trusted that the dates would be made in both cases the same.
 MR. G. YOUNG  said, that his learned Friend (The Lord Advocate) had stated that by the law as it at present existed every householder was to be put upon the register and would then be qualified to vote provided he paid his rates. He could only say that he did not so interpret the existing law, however it might be altered by the provisions of this Bill. It was true that by the Poor Law Act of 1845 the assessor for the poor rate was required to make up the roll of all ratepayers including the occupiers of all kinds of houses; but by the Valuation Act of 1854 it was provided that the names of all occupiers, being mere tenants of lands and tenements let at a rent not amounting to £4, should not be inserted in the valuation roll, and that in all cases where any lands or heritages should be let at a rent not amounting to £4 per annum, and the names of the occupiers thereof should not have been inserted in the valuation roll, the proprietors of such lands or heritages should be charged with and have to pay the whole of the assessment on such lands and heritages, but should have relief against the tenant for payment thereof. It was analogous to the law of the compound-householder, there being a provision in Clause 31 to the effect that where the rent was under £4 the landlord should pay the whole of the assessment, including the assessment for poor rate, not only his own half as landlord, but also the tenant's half. The landlord had a statutory right to recover from the tenant. He wished to know whether these tenants would be regarded as tenants paying their rates, or
 848
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he thought that the word "assessment" should be omitted. He assumed that a person who was relieved from paying a part of his rates would be disfranchised, and very properly.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he would propose to leave out the words "assessment or." The Amendment would then read smoothly, and the grammatical criticisms would no longer apply. Now that they had taken the Land Valuations Act they had nothing to do with the Poor Law assessment, and anything which related to that should be left out altogether. Then, as to the suggestion which had been made that the 15th of May should be left out, and the 5th of January substituted, as in the English Act, he thought it was of no great importance; but still it would be
 849
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that the practice as to assessment was diverse, in some cases the assessment being from May, in others from November. In the one case the time was too short; in the other much too long. He thought it desirable that the Government should consider whether there should not be some fixed date—say the 5th of January; and, if not, whether it would not be better to dispense altogether with a clause which would operate with such inequality as that under discussion.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the object of the Government was to assimilate this Bill to the English Bill so far as regarded the ratepaying clauses. The most direct way of accomplishing that object, as there were places in Scotland not assessed to the poor, would be not to specify poor rates, but to make the franchise depend upon the payment of any burgh rates whatever. In the city which he represented, besides 4,236 £10 householders, in 1867 there were 265 at £9, 332 at £8, 415 at £7, 324 at £6, 912 at £5, 1,428 at £4, the total assessed to taxes for municipal purposes at and under £10 being 9,323. Of
 850
 MR. ELLICE  said, he must express his regret that the settlement existing under the 2nd and 31st clauses of the Valuation Act was to be disturbed. He did not think the Parochial Board was the best body to determine what exemptions should take place. He preferred leaving that duty to the Commissioners of Supply in counties, and to the magistrates in boroughs, who were popularly elected, and were not such exclusive bodies as the Parochial Board. The Valuation Act, which had been in existence for fourteen years, had worked most satisfactorily. In the Scotch burghs there were large numbers of tenements which could scarcely be dignified with the name of houses. He thought the clause would require some further revision, and he earnestly hoped the Lord Advocate would take the matter into his consideration, and accede to the Amendment of which he had given Notice, after the words "inability to pay," in line 3 of the Lord Advocate's Amendment, to insert the words "or whose names shall not have been inserted on the valuation roll."
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he regretted that he could not accede to the Amendment of the hon. Member for St. Andrews (Mr. Ellice), which was not consistent with the spirit either of this or of the English Bill. Its object was to go back upon the decision of the House, that it should not be in the power of magistrates to disqualify. It would, in fact, make that compulsory which was at present optional, and would draw a fixed line at £4. It would be still more objectionable if it were not a fixed line. However, that Amendment was not at present before the Committee, and he had only mentioned it because it had been just referred to by the hon. Gentleman. Some criticisms had been made by the hon. and learned Member for the Wigton burghs (Mr. G, Young).
 851 852
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, that questions of mere phraseology were necessarily left open, and his impression was that the clause would require some revision to make it work satisfactorily.
 MR. G. YOUNG  asked, whether the Amendment was intended to include partial as well as total exemption?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Yes; it is intended to apply to partial as well as total exemption.
 MR. BAXTER  said, there was considerable force in what had fallen from his hon. Friend, and he sympathized very much with the objection he had taken to the clause as it stood, because there could be no doubt that in former times in Scot land advantage was taken to create faggot votes to a great extent; but he had a strong feeling that with the enlarged constituencies, and the new franchise, those faggot votes would not be created nearly to the same extent. Besides, he could not help feeling it would be rather ungracious, without strong reasons, to adopt for Scotland a different principle to that laid down in the English Act. He wished also to keep to the old lines of the Constitution — that the votes for counties should be based on ownership. He hoped the hon. Baronet would not divide the Committee on the question.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he was sorry he could not agree with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter). There was nothing so common as for men to begin by praising something, and ending by giving their votes against it. The hon. Member for Montrose said that the hon. Baronet had a capital case, and yet he was going to vote against him. If the Committee would take into account the smallness of the Scotch counties—[Mr. BAXTER: Some of them.] If you will allow me, there were several of these small counties that could be overpowered by the extraneous voters of Edinburgh and Glasgow—that is, the electors of these counties might be overpowered by them. Why, there were many counties in Scotland which might be much more appropriately called parishes. No doubt, it was quite true that in the great English counties of four or ten times the magnitude of the small Scotch counties, there was a foreign element introduced; men living in London had votes in Lancashire, Leicestershire, and other counties. It did not follow that that element could be safely imported into the small Scotch counties. It certainly did deteriorate, and in certain cases overpower, the resident electors. He could mention a case where a considerable majority voted for a candidate, but the people of the county were overpowered by
 854
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he trusted that the Committee would not agree to a proposal for disfranchising a large portion of the proprietors of land in Scotland.
 MR. SINCLAIR AYTOUN  said, he would give his vote to any Amendment; which would prevent the creation of faggot votes. Surely the hon. and learned Gentleman who sat on the Treasury Bench could draw up such a clause. But he could not admit that, because faggot votes had been created in Scotland in a few cases, an enormous number of  bonâ fide
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  hoped that the Amendment would not be accepted by the Committee. There were no electors more independent than those of the small counties.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he had a very strong opinion upon the question raised by his hon. Friend the Member for Lanarkshire (Sir Edward Colebrooke); but he was of opinion that the practice of creating faggot votes had not been carried to so great an extent as was thought. So much difference of opinion existed, even among hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House upon the question of residence, that he thought his hon. Friend would exercise a wise discretion in withdrawing the Amendment. It was desirable; that they should be as unanimous as possible, in order to complete the work which was before them.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he did not concur in the objections urged against the Amendment, and therefore he would not withdraw it. He would prefer to have it negatived rather than take that course. This was a subject which would crop up again.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  opposed the proposition on the ground that the clause as it stood was in accordance with the provision of the English Act of last year. However, as he did not think it a matter of much consequence, he would agree to the proposition.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the Amendment would not have the effect of extending the English franchise to Scotland, for the 40 s.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that a creation of faggot votes took place last year in Renfrewshire, which could not have taken place if the interest of the borrowed money had had to be deducted.
 MR. BAZLEY  thought the clause, as it stood, would be the only preventive of faggot vote-making. It was a fact that the mortgages of small properties were in the hands of the district banker, who had entire command of the votes.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  thought the clause as it stood would prevent the creation of faggot votes, properly so called.
 MR. MONCREIFF  asked if it would be desirable for the assessor under this clause to go rummaging through every person's property. In the case of persons who had borrowed money the factor or local agent might put a claimant for the franchise into the witness-box, and call upon him to state the amount of burdens upon his property, thus causing great expense and annoyance. He entreated his right hon. and learned Friend not to insist upon this provision.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  contended that they would not establish a beneficial franchise if they gave facilities for making improper votes, and therefore he hoped the Amendment would be rejected.
 MR. CRAUFURD  declared that if the words proposed to be omitted were left in, they would disfranchise practically a large portion of £10 holders.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the Government were willing to assent, in substance, to the alteration proposed, which, it was alleged, would have the effect of removing some inconvenience that was apprehended. In at least 100 parishes of Scotland there were no poor rates, and no rateable assessment. The Bill proposed to secure a uniform assessment, and that the full value return should be given of all property, with a net assessment also, between £12 and £50. As, however, it seemed that that would be objected to, the Government had thought it right to give way; and he therefore proposed to substitute for the words "rateable value of £12" the words "annual value of £14 or upwards, as appearing on the valuation roll of such county," that amount being the equivalent for a £12 rating.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. BOUVERIE , who had given Notice of a Motion to leave out snb-divisions 3 and 4 of the Clause 7, said, that he should not press it, understanding that the Lord Advocate was about to bring forward an Amendment on the same subject.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that with a view to prevent the creation of faggot votes, he begged to move to add at the end of the clause the following words:—
 "Provided, that no man shall, under this section, be entitled to be registered as a voter by reason of his being a joint owner or joint occupier of any lands or heritages."
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, this matter stood on a somewhat different footing from those fictitious properties which had just been considered. There could he no more legitimate title to the franchise than the joint occupancy of a farm. A farmer very often wished that his son should be associated with him, and, in fact, family arrangements were frequently dependent upon it. The question was altogether apart from faggot votes, and he could not consent to the Amendment.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, that from his own personal experience he thought it desirable that the Amendment should not be pressed.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, there would be an opportunity of discussing the question more at large upon the clauses to be brought up at a later stage, and recommended his hon. Friend to withdraw his Amendment for the present.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  suggested that the clause should be so worded as to apply to any three-cornered constituency, since it was possible that Glasgow might not be the only one in that position.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  suggested the omission of the word "agent." It was desirable that an agent should be a gentleman of social position. He usually was so, and he ought not to lose his vote through acting in the capacity of agent.
 MR. BAXTER  said, these disqualifications were decided upon in the case of the English Bill, after full discussion.
 MR. POWELL  said, he hoped the words would be omitted.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he trusted the words would be retained.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, the clause raised the important question of distribution of seats, which had never been properly discussed by the House or the Committee. He thought they ought to have from the Government some explanation as to the places which they proposed to disfranchise before they entered upon the question of the allotment of the seats. They ought, in fact, to catch their hare before they cooked it. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) had made a very objectionable proposal in regard to the distribution of seats. A counter proposal of a still more objectionable character had been made by his hon. Friend (Sir Rainald Knightley). Another proposal, which stood in the Bill as it was originally framed, was more objectionable than either of the others. In his opinion the proposal of the Government to increase the number of Members of that House was one of the most dangerous ever submitted to a Legislative Assembly. A fourth proposal, with which he largely concurred, and of which the hon. Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk) had given Notice, had not yet been brought before the Committee. He objected to any and every proposition which had either for its immediate or ultimate object to make any addition to the monotonous and one-sided character of the representation of Scotland. He appeared before the Committee in this respect as the Scotchman's friend. In the first place, he would submit that the claims of Scotland to representation at the expense of England could not be made out when the representation of certain parts of the kingdom was considered. The West Riding of Yorkshire had claims to a considerable addition to its representation. Its population amounted to about half the population of Scotland.
 MR. CANDLISH  rose to Order. The hon. Member was not confining himself to the clause now before the Committee.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The clause was
 859
 MR. J. LOWTHER  contended that his remarks were germane to the question whether there should be two Members for the Scotch Universities. His objection was to any proposition the object of which was immediately to make an addition to the representation of Scotland at the expense either of England or Ireland. The West Riding of Yorkshire, with half the population of Scotland, had twenty-two Members, while Scotland had fifty-three; and four Members at least were due to the West Riding before it could be placed on an equality with Scotland. And yet it was proposed to take a seat from Northallerton, which was in the county of Yorkshire, and to give it to Scotland. Ever since the time of the Picts and the Scots there had been nothing more unjustifiable. The hon. Member for Montrose made a raid on the northern counties; but he (Mr. Lowther) could not assent to a Motion for taking a seat from so populous a district and giving it to Scotland. He might also cite the case of the County Palatine of Lancaster, the population of which was about five-sixths of that of Scotland, and the representation of which was miserably inadequate. According to the standard set up by the hon. Member for Montrose, a balance of eleven Members ought to be given to Lancashire to bring that county up to the representation of Scotland. Representation and voting power were two very distinct things. The numerical force of Scotland in the divisions of that House was a very different thing from the fair and adequate representation of all classes and sections of the community. For a very long time the Executive of Scotland had been actually unrepresented in that House, and very great inconvenience had been caused to the Government thereby; and had it not been for the volunteered good offices of the hon. Members for Ayrshire and Peeblesshire, the inconvenience would have been still more serious. After a very considerable interval the Scottish Executive was represented in that House; but the Lord Advocate found a seat for one of those very English boroughs (Thetford) which had fallen within the devouring grasp of the hon. Member for Montrose. He maintained that a fair and complete representation of Scotland was not to be expected from the scheme of the hon. Member.
 THE CHAIRMAN  reminded the hon. Member that he had not yet applied his remarks to the clause.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he intended to propose that the clause be postponed, in order that the Committee might receive information from the Government as to the constituencies that were required. He protested against any attempt to diminish the English or Irish representation for the sake of Scotland.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he hoped that the Government would not listen to the proposal of the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther). The Scotch Reform Bill had been brought in in the second week of the Session, and the Scotch Members had been kept week after week in expectation that progress would be made with their Bill. Yet now, in the fourth week of May, the hon. Member made a proposal which was equivalent to asking the Government to drop the Bill for the present Session. The hon. Member had, in fact, delivered that night the speech he ought to have made last Monday. The hon. Member was now too late. He trusted that if they did not finish the clauses that evening, they would get through the Committee on an early night.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he wished to treat Scotland with perfect fairness in this matter. The question decided the other night was merely this, that certain boroughs in England should be disfranchised. Scotland, from some source or other, was to receive seven additional Members, and he should be prepared to assist in giving Scotland that number. But he protested against the assumption that the decision come to the other night was that seats should be taken from England and given to Scotland.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose were tantamount to a confession of the weakness of his cause, or else he would not have been in such a hurry to pledge the House beforehand to a general Resolution, before they had considered the details upon which it ought to have been based. The disfranchisement of the seven boroughs, which had been affirmed so hastily the other night, was the abandonment of one more of the principles of the Reform Bill, formally acquiesced in by the Government, although directly in face
 861 toto cœlo 862
 MR. HAYTER  concurred with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down in thinking it impossible that they could enter upon the question of the distribution of the seats before they had the seats to distribute. Their present position reminded him of the old adage, " Ex nihilo nihil fit.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he should support the Motion of the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther). It appeared to him that the time had come for reporting Progress. The concessions made by Gentlemen on the opposite side had enabled the franchise clauses of the Bill to be discussed, and they had now arrived at the re-distribution of clauses, which he considered by far the most important part of this measure. As it now stood, seven seats had been allocated, he must say, in a very unsatisfactory manner. But the time was come when the Lord Advocate ought to rise and tell them how he meant to allocate the ten seats apparently placed at his disposal by the vote of the other night. He suggested that the whole of the re-distribution clauses should be withdrawn, and others, embodying a new and improved scheme, should be substituted; otherwise, he believed the re-distribution would be taken out of the hands of the Ministers, and transferred to Gentlemen oppposite. With a little more concession on both sides, it was his belief that a more satisfactory measure might be framed. If the Lord Advocate would give more atten-
 863
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that if ten Members were to be taken from small English boroughs, he saw no reason why they should not be given to large unrepresented towns in England instead of being transferred to Scotland. He thought the claim of Ireland to increased representation was greater than that of Scotland. Ireland, from her population and taxation, was entitled to twenty-seven additional Members. There were towns in Scotland which had not 1,000 voters each. The number of voters in the Scotch counties was particularly small; and he had himself given notice of a Motion that no county which had less than 1,000 electors should be entitled to send Members to this House. If boroughs with only a few voters were disfranchised, why not counties also? Peeblesshire and Selkirkshire had only 500 voters each, and there was the nomination county of Sutherland with only 180 electors. The number of county electors which would be added to the constituency of Sutherlandshire under the present Bill would not amount to 300, three-fourths of whom were on the property of the Duke of Sutherland, to oblige whom the Leaders on both sides had coalesced to support this scandalous blot in the Scottish representation. He therefore asked whether English towns would tolerate the transference of their representation to Scotland. He considered the Motion of the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther) a very reason able one, and he should therefore support it.
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  said, he had witnessed with regret the success of the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter). It might have been a good party move; but he thought at the time that it was likely to end in Scotland receiving no additional representation at all. He was present in the House when the present Prime Minister, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, stated that it was his determination to avoid any measure proposing a diminution of Members for England, and that declaration was received with universal acclamations of approval by English Members, which induced one to think that the determination would be maintained. It would be an act of the greatest possible injustice to disfranchise ten small constituencies unconvicted of any crime whatever. He was unwilling to get rid of small constituencies, because he considered that they sent most valuable representatives to that House; and he had not forgotten the eloquent defence of them made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Beresford Hope) that the objection that had been made to the increase of the numbers of the House was a mere bugbear; and whether the increase should be seven or ten did not greatly signify. He should be extremely sorry if the Committee did not affirm the proposition to give two Members to the Universities of Scotland. England had four or five University Members; Ireland had two; and why should not Scotland, with her four Universities, have two Members also? He was sure the Scotch Universities would return most valuable Members in connection with education, literature, and science. But while he thought they should insist on having two Members for the Scotch Universities, he did not wish to get them at the expense of the small boroughs of England. They must eventually increase the numbers of the House; and he hoped English Members would not do Scotland the injustice of limiting her representatives to the present number. Everything pointed towards an increase in the numbers of the House. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire would disagree from that proposition. Looking to the increase of the population and the wealth of the country, as well as of the private business of the House, he thought that ten additional Members were scarcely adequate to the
 865
 MR. GLADSTONE : Until about an hour ago, when the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) rose, I was under the impression — the happy impression—that there was a general conviction in the Committee, as in the House, that we ought, if possible, to go on find make progress with this Bill. A Motion more disappointing than that of the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther), and supported by speeches more disappointing, I can hardly conceive; because not only do they attempt to go back on propositions deliberately affirmed by the House, but they attempt that in the way; most inconvenient—not by challenging a direct issue, but by voting the postponement of the clause; and why? Because, says the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, the conclusion was arrived at before dinner. The hon. Member thinks it exceedingly improper to arrive at any conclusion before dinner. His speech was founded on this proposition—and those, which followed were founded on the same doctrine—that the number of the Members of this House ought to be increased, and that that is the proper way of finding additional Members. Now, if that is the course to be adapted, let it be proposed distinctly —not under the form of a proposition that leaves everything completely in the dark. But if that question is to be raised again, it is going back on what was almost unanimously settled. For what happened last week? The right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown has certainly done all in his power, and made every effort he could make to induce the House to find the additional Members for Scotland by increasing the number of Members in the House, but he very fairly acknowledged last week that he found that to be impracticable. He conceded in the most express terms the point in dispute. He expressed a rather feeble preference for the proposal of the hon. Baronet the Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley) over that of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), but he acquiesced in the result. Under these circumstances, when the disposition to increase the numbers of the
 866
 MR. R. J. HARVEY  said, he believed that, although Scotland might be satisfied, England would never consent to the taking of ten Members from English boroughs and transferring them to Scotland. That would be a great breach of faith so far as the English county Members were concerned, who had been induced by the promises held out in regard to the re-distribution of scats to consent to the Bill of last year. In his county two Members had been taken away from Great Yarmouth and one from Thetford, and now it was proposed to take away the other Member from Thetford.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, the Government had proposed to give seven additional seats to Scotland, and what the Committee desired to know was what was to be done with the remaining three seats placed at their disposal by the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter). A rumour was afloat that an arrangement had been come to between the Scotch Members and the Government, by which the whole ten seats were to be given to Scotland, instead of some of them being allotted among the large towns of this country. He wished to know from the Government whether that report was correct or not? Perhaps on the whole it would be better that the question should be postponed in order to give the Government an opportunity of re-considering the matter.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, this was a Motion to delay the consideration of this clause upon a. matter which be understood had been agreed upon by both sides of the
 867
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that he thought the Motion of the hon. Member for York a fair and consistent Motion. The hon. Member had not been fairly treated by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). Although power had been given to the Committee to deal with the ten seats, yet the boroughs to which they belonged had not yet been disfranchised. It had been distinctly understood on that side of the House that only seven of those ten Members were to be given to Scotland, and it yet remained to be decided what was to be done with the remaining three seats. If any understanding had been come to between certain parties in that House that the whole of the ten Members were to be given to Scotland, that was no reason why such an agreement should be binding upon the whole House. Members on that side of the House had happily not yet arrived at that stage of subserviency. They were at perfect liberty to discuss the propriety of that arrangement.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Moncreiff) has blamed me for not addressing the Committee before upon this Question; but the fact is that I have risen two or three times for that purpose, and on one of those occasions I gave way to the eloquence of the right hon. Member himself; his remark, therefore, was somewhat superfluous. The hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther) has made a Motion to which I cannot assent. I thought to-night was to be an eminently practical night, during which we were to make some considerable progress in passing the Scotch Reform Bill, and securing that early appeal to the country on another question which nobody in this House is more anxious to hasten than are those who have the honour of being Her Majesty's Ministers. The hon. Member for York said he did not clearly know what we were called upon to vote for with regard to the re-distribution of seats, and it was impossible for us to go on with the discussion of re-distribution. It was upon that ground that he moved that the consideration of the clause should be postponed—he said it was impossible to go on without a plan. But the hon. Member has a plan of re-distribution before him— he has the Bill upon which we are now in Committee, and which contains many
 868 869 870 871 872
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he regarded the proposals now submitted to the Committee by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government as a totally distinct and new set of proposals. He thought it necessary that they should have some time to consider them; or, if the Committee proceeded at once to their consideration, it ought to be on the understanding that the right hon. Gentleman submitted the scheme now laid before the Committee in a distinct shape as a substitute for that made in the Bill. The scheme was, no doubt, preferable to the one submitted by the Government last year; but still he trusted the Committee would accept the proposal made by the hon. Member for Montrose, which involved a very small addition to that proposed by the right hon. Gentleman oppo-
 873
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he was sorry that he could not he a party to any such compromise as that which had been suggested by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. He strongly opposed the principle of giving one single seat from the representation of England, after that representation had been settled in a measure which had received the consent of both Houses of Parliament, which had received the consent of the Queen, and which was now the law of the land, and he should feel it his duty to divide the House upon the proposal. He was ready to support the agreement come to last year to add to Scotland's Members but only by voting for an increase of the House, a proposition against which no valid objection could be urged.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he could quite, understand the remark of the right hon. Gentleman behind him (Mr. Bouverie) that the Government had made a proposal involving points now to them, mid which might require further time for consideration; but he was in no difficulty in that respect himself. He had had the plan of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) before him for some time, and being quite satisfied with it was prepared to vote for it. Though the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman was an improvement on the original scheme in the Bill, he saw one fundamental objection to it. He would not outer into controversy respecting any eulogy he had delivered on old nomination boroughs, which served a purpose very different from the use to which the present small boroughs are put. But he was quite convinced that the general judgment of the country having approved the vote of the House by which the extinction of ten utterly insignificant places of only formal representation was decreed, it would be highly unsatisfactory to the country were they to recede from any portion of that vote. If they came to the conclusion that ten seats should not be given to Scotland, it would be hard to restore to life the ten burghs that had been smitten. But he thought the claim of Scotland to ten more Members had been fairly made out, and he was afraid a grievance would remain behind if the ten scats were cut down to the measure of the right hon. Gentleman. With regard to the arithmetical calculation of the right hon.
 874
 MR. J. HARDY  said, that Devonshire would be robbed of six Members if the Scotch seats were to be supplied from England in addition to the disfranchisement of Totnes, and the disappointment of having the promised representation of Torquay unfulfilled. The right hon. Member for Smith Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) seemed inclined to explain away his expression of opinion on the value of small boroughs; but he asked the Committee to listen to his words. "Through the medium of small boroughs," said the right hon. Gentleman —
 "You introduce those calm, sagacious, retired observers who are averse from the rough contact necessary in canvassing large bodies… If that one ingress is to be the suffrages of a large mass of voters, the consequence is a dead level of mediocrities, which destroys not only the ornament but the force of this House, and which, as I think, the history of other countries will show is ultimately fatal to the liberties of the people."
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had heard with amazement the proposal of the First Minister of the Crown to withdraw the second Member promised to Aberdeen, with its 90,000 inhabitants, and, as he had shown, nearly 9,000 prospective electors. The assertion of the right hon. Gentleman, that giving seven of England's Members to Scotland would be equal to parting with fourteen, could be supported only on the presumption that Scotland was hostile to England, and that in all divisions its Members would be found in the Opposition Lobby.
 COLONEL FRENCH  asked, with reference to the Prime Minister's proposal to join two counties, what he intended to do with Sutherlandshire and its 180 voters?
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, he hoped the now Scotch Members would not be taken from England; but if it must be so, he thought it very hard that the proposal of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) should be preferred to that of the hon. Baronet (Sir Rainald Knightley).
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, it was not competent to the hon. Member to discuss the merits of any plan as opposed to the Instruction given to the Committee.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, he hoped that, whatever was done to satisfy Scotland's claims, the representation of the Eastern Division of Somersetshire, which was the wealthiest and most populous portion of that county, would not be diminished.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I am not quite sure whether the hon. Member for York persists in his Motion for the postponement of the clause. I heard that he was about to withdraw it.
 MR. J. LOWTHER : I wish to consult the convenience of the Committee, I rather mistook the course I intended to take.
 MR. BRIGHT : That is not a very definite answer. I was rather surprised at the language of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, and at the language of some Members opposite, on this question. They seemed to me to forget that Scotland is part of the United Kingdom; that, in point of fact, Scotland is only a name which we give to the Northern portion of this island; and that if you transfer Members to places north of the Tweed it is only the same as if those places were north of the Thames, or north of the Humber. Nothing could be more unconstitutional and nothing more unfortunate than to deal with this question as if we were giving some portion of our power as English Members to another and scarcely a friendly power which dwells in the Northern part of the island. Now, in the Bill of last year, hon. Gentlemen opposite, following the advice of the right hon. Gentleman, agreed to give three Members to three new boroughs in the county of Durham— to Darlington, Stockton, and, I think, the Hartlepools. Well, but suppose that these three boroughs had been north of the Tweed, what would have been the difference? In point of fact, you are discussing a matter which does not exist, and you are frightening yourselves with a phantom in which there is nothing whatever substantial; and I protest, in the name of every man who wishes for the unity of the kingdom, against the contention in which the right hon. Gentleman has indulged— and I am sure he knows a great deal better— that in taking seven or ten Members from England and putting them to the north of the Tweed, you are aggrandizing Scotland at the expense of England.
 876 877
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I quite agree with the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) that it is not desirable that the Chairman should report Progress. We ought to endeavour to arrive, if possible, at a fair and reasonable settlement of the question of the representation of Scotland, But with the other observations of the hon. Gentleman I cannot at all agree. One of the arguments which he has brought forward is the disproportion of large boroughs like Birmingham and the small boroughs which it is sought to disfranchise, and the hon. Member says, "Surely, it is unreasonable that you should refuse to make a settlement of the question by getting rid of these small boroughs." Now, if this argument is good for anything, we ought to reconsider the whole platform of our representation. One of the principles of the Bill of last year was that no borough was to be disfranchised. The more material argument, however, which the hon. Member addressed to us is the great importance of settling this question in a manner which shall be fair and just towards Scotland. Now, I entirely concur in the remark which has been made by many hon. Gentlemen in the course of this debate, that Scotland has a fair claim to additional representation. I should be very glad to see that claim fully satisfied; but when the hon. Member for Birmingham reasons that we are to come now to a settlement of the question, allow me to remind him that this question must now be considered as part of and a continuation of the argument which we had last year with regard to the scheme for a complete reform of the representation in every part of the kingdom. I agree with him that Scotland is as much a part of the kingdom as any county in England, and that therefore we ought to entertain no jealousy about transferring, if it be reasonable, the representation from one portion of the kingdom to the other, even though it goes beyond the Tweed. But the question before us is really this— When you had your Reform Bills before you last year, including the Scotch Bill, which contemplated an addition of seven Members to this House, you did not pause for one moment in settling the question of re-distribution for England; but you went on the supposition that that re-distribution was a settlement of the question as far as this portion of the kingdom is concerned. I think we are quite as much bound to I maintain that settlement as to extend additional representation to that part of
 879
 MR. WALROND  hoped this would be treated as an Imperial question, He was ready to admit that they ought to legislate upon the same principles for all portions of the United Kingdom; and therefore he should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk).
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) a most judicious one, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would place the substance of it in a distinct form before the Committee, he thought the proposal to give ten seats to Scotland would never become law.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he had no wish to postpone the clauses, although the more he looked at them the less he liked them. His only object having been to elicit the opinion of the Government, he would withdraw his Motion and support the Motion of the hon. Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk.)
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would now move an Amendment to insert in line 10, after the word "shall," the words having reference to the Scotch University constituencies—
 "Return one Member to serve in Parliament, from and after the end of the present Parliament the City of Glasgow shall be divided into two divisions in the manner specified in Schedule () hereto annexed, and each division shall return two Members; the City of Edinburgh shall return three Members; and the Town of Dundee, the City of Aberdeen, and the Counties of Lanark, Ayr, Aberdeen, and Perth shall each return two Members to serve in Parliament." 880 881
 LORD ELCHO  said, he thought his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) was wrong in saying that the Universities would prefer one Member to two.
 MR. BAXTER  explained that the Gentleman he had referred to said the Universities would, of course, prefer two Members; but, rather than have them in the way proposed by the Government, they would prefer only one.
 LORD ELCHO  said, there could be no doubt that those interested in the Scottish Universities were strongly in favour of two Members, on the ground that when they were adding so much to the democratic element in that House, it was desirable, as a corrective to the preponderance of mere numbers, that they should give weight to the sort of men who would be likely to be returned from those seats of learning. He was disposed to agree with what had fallen from the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), that, considering what was done last year, it was a strong measure to re-open the question of re-distribution. Between the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir Rainald Knightley) and that of the hon. Member (Mr. Baxter), the House had had a choice of evils, and he had voted against the latter Motion. In his opinion, they had now gone too far to retract; and therefore,
 882
 MR. VANCE  said, that a too ready assent had been given to the principle of giving additional Members to Scotland. He did not think that country was entitled to any additional representation at all. By the Reform Act of 1832 Scotland obtained more than its fair proportion of representatives. According to the Census of 1861 Scotland had a, population of 3,066,000, and Ireland 5,800,000, or nearly double. Scotland had 53 Members, and Ireland 105, so that upon the ground of population Scotland was abundantly represented already. Again, it taxation were taken as a, basis of representation, the metropolitan districts, whose wealth was greater than that of all Scotland, must be entitled to more Members than Scotland possessed. He thought the Amendment involved a breach of faith with those Members who had voted for the English Reform Bill of last year. But if the House decided on giving seven additional Members to Scotland, he protested against their being taken from England. The vote for disfranchising the ten English boroughs was a purely accidental one, and the claim of Scotland for ten additional Members was perfectly ridiculous. The Whig Government, in their Reform Bill of 1866, proposed seven additional Members for Scotland, and that proposal was adopted by the present Government without due foundation.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the question before the Committee was, whether the Scotch Universities should have two Members or only one. There was a general concurrence of opinion that Scotland was entitled to some additional representation. The proposal of the Government was that the Universities should be divided— Edinburgh and St. Andrews returning one Member, and Glasgow and Aberdeen the other. He should much wish to know the name of the person who made that singular communication to the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), he concluded that he must be an English student attending one of their Universities. That proposed division was approved by the  Senatus Academici 883
 MR. LAING  said, he was entirely in favour of the general principles of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) giving ten more Members to Scotland. He thought that the largo towns had an incontestable right to increased representation, while, on the other hand, he had a strong feeling in favour of giving two Members to the Scotch Universities. Now, he thought that there was a mode of reconciling the claims of both these interests. When the Committee remembered that the county of Sutherland contained only 181 voters, might they not with perfect propriety group it with the adjoining county of Ross, which was not a large county? He thought the representatives of Scotland would not be doing their duty if they allowed the representation of the Scotch Universities to be cut down from two to one, leaving a separate representation to such a county as Sutherland?
 MR. GRANT DUFF  suggested that the hon. Member (Mr. Baxter) should accept the proposal of the Government to give two Members to the Universities, and should omit that part of his Motion which claimed an additional Member for the county of Perth.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, as far as he was able to understand, the people of Scotland objected to the Scotch Universities having one-thirtieth of the representation of Scotland, As the English Universities had only one-hundredth of the English representation, and the Irish Universities only one fifty-fifth of the Irish representation, he thought that the Government proposed too large a representation relatively for the Scotch Universities.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he had not intended
 884
 MR. BAXTER  then moved an Amendment.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the proposed Amendment divided itself into several distinct propositions, which he submitted ought to be put separately.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, there was no necessity for putting each of the propositions separately, inasmuch as they had all been moved as one Amendment, and it was open to any hon. Member to move to amend the proposed Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought it would be advisable to have the question relating to the representation of the Scotch Universities — the question raised by the clause itself— disposed of in the first instance.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, that the Amendment just put by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) was essentially a redistribution scheme; and therefore he thought it would be better to have it put as a whole.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  suggested that the hon. Member for Montrose should allow the latter part of the clause to be carried before he added his Amendment.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he did not wish to prejudge the question of the representation to be given to the Universities. His object was to have a decision on the question whether Scotland was to have seven or ten additional Members.
 MR. POWELL asked the Chairman whether, if the proposition regarding the
 885
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he did not think it would be convenient to decide the case of all those counties and towns  en bloc
 THE CHAIRMAN , in reply to Mr. POWELL, said, that if a given proposition were negatived that same proposition could not be raised again.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  asked whether, if the Committee decided against the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose as a whole, a proposition to give a second Member each to Lanarkshire, Ayrshire, Aberdeenshire, and the town of Dundee, could be again raised?
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that would depend on whether the subsequent proposition was for another scheme of re-distribution. Last year, in the Committee on the English Reform Bill, a Motion was made to give a third Member to each of six large towns. The Committee negatived that Motion; but afterwards, by a subsequent clause, the Committee decided on giving a third Member each to four of those towns. This was held to be a different proposition from the previous one.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  proposed, as an Amendment to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), to leave out the words "be divided into two divisions in the manner specified in Schedule () hereto annexed," in order to insert the words "return three Members to serve in Parliament." He wished to explain his Amendment, which was, that instead of giving four Members to Glasgow, which had not been done in the case of any of the large towns of England, they should give it three Members, in the same way as Liverpool, Manchester, and Birmingham
 MR. CARDWELL : It is quite true that the great towns in England did not get four Members; but if you will take Liverpool,
 886
 MR. DISRAELI  said: I would express a hope that after this decision the Committee may be induced to adopt the plan of the Government. I trust, upon reflection, they will find it the best way to expedite business, and that which, upon the whole, will best meet the opinions and feelings of the majority of the Members.
 MR. MONCREIFF : I would suggest that the best course is to report Progress. I think it is a very fair subject for consideration what course we ought to take, and I do not think it is reasonable in the
 890
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The right hon. Member opposite, I understand, wishes us to report Progress. But I trust, at all events, that nothing will be done till the words are inserted upon which the Committee has just divided.
 MR. GLADSTONE : That is a most proper proposal. But I am sure the right hon. Gentleman will remember that the plan of the Government has never been put upon the Paper, It was stated verbally to night; but we have had no opportunity of considering it. I think it is quite plain that the Committee, by the vote at which they have just arrived, have made it useless for the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) to propose the next portion of his Amendment, relating to Edinburgh. But we ought to have the plan of the Government before us in an intelligible shape.
 MR. DISRAELI : The proposal of the Government is no new plan, and it is perfectly intelligible. I must say I think this is a favourable opportunity for making progress with the Bill, and that we ought not to report Progress at such an early hour. Unexpected business came on at the commencement of the evening, and prevented our entering at once upon the discussion of this measure; it is now only twelve o'clock, and I really do not think the opportunity ought to be wasted. If the right hon Gentleman thinks that the plan of the Government, which involves only a few and simple alterations of an original proposal, requires to be better understood, there can be no objection to that. But allow me to say that there is a great deal to be done before those provisions are reached. Let us, having begun with it, at least dispose of the scheme of the hon. Member for Montrose; so that when we do meet again, if it be thought necessary to devote another evening to the subject, the opinion of the Committee may be finally taken upon those points only which it is thought necessary to reserve. I cannot consent to report Progress at twelve o'clock.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he should in many case divide the House upon the proposition relating to Aberdeen.
 MR. BOUVERIE : Sir, I thought the right hon. Gentleman's proposal a reasonable one in itself, that after this division we should consider whether we could not adopt his scheme. The right hon. Gentleman no doubt wishes to be very fair in his dealings with the Scotch Members; but it is a
 891
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, it is true that the proposals of the Government as stated this evening are not formally upon the Paper; but everything which my right hon. Friend has stated is in the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose. If therefore you leave out everything relating to Edinburgh and Aberdeen, the Amendment of the hon. Member for 'Montrose will carry everything that has been proposed by my right hon. Friend. I do trust, therefore, the Committee will resolve to finish that portion of the business.
 MR. ELLICE , with a view of carrying matters to a satisfactory conclusion, hoped the hon. Member for Montrose would accede to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and allow those points to be inserted as to which there was no dispute.
 MR. PEASE  said, that according to the Instruction moved by the hon. Member for Montrose, the Committee had power to deal with ten seats. Only seven of these were provided for by the plan of the Government. Were the remaining three seats to be left in abeyance, or what was to become of them? An answer to that question would probably affect the votes of some hon. Members sitting near him.
 MR. BAXTER  regretted very much the decision at which the Committee had just arrived; but felt it his duty to defer to such a plain expression of opinion. It would not be, he thought, consulting the interests of Scotland and of the Liberal party, or taking a proper course, if he were to put the House to the trouble of dividing again with regard to Edinburgh and Aberdeen. He still hoped the right hon. Gentleman would re-consider his determination to give only seven representatives to Scotland.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he hoped the Government would re-consider this point. Three Members had been given to Leeds, which had a population not much larger than Edinburgh, while its wealth and taxation were very much smaller. Edinburgh also contributed more to the taxation of the country than Birmingham and than Dublin, which were to have three Members, and as the capital of Scotland its claims ought to be considered.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am quite ready to consider the case of Edinburgh without any prejudice, and without being in the least influenced by the late division. Everybody admires Edinburgh, and everybody respects the representatives of Edinburgh, even though they may not sit on our side of the House. I do not think these questions ought to be decided entirely Depopulation; but I cannot agree with the hon. Gentleman that the population of Edinburgh is equal to that of Leeds, since, according to the last Returns, Edinburgh has 168,000, while Leeds has 207,000. [Mr. M'LAREN: I said it was not much larger.] Then, I do not exactly understand why the name of Leeds was introduced. We are virtually giving an additional Member to Edinburgh by giving a representative to its University, and Edinburgh is also indirectly represented by the port of Leith. Therefore the population of Edinburgh will be represented under our new system by no less than four Members. Under these circumstances, I cannot accede to the hon. Gentleman's suggestion.
 MR. BEECROFT  said, he wished it to be understood that Leeds had a much larger population than Edinburgh.
 COLONEL SYKES : Sir, at this time of night, or rather morning, and with Members long wearied, I cannot expect any arguments of mine to be listened to; if they were gospel-truths they would be unheeded; but a grievous injustice is about to be inflicted. Here is Aberdeen, with its 90,000 inhabitants, its progress in wealth, its great intelligence, the seat of a celebrated University, and the seat of
 893
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  proposed the insertion of words providing that a Member should be returned jointly by the Universities of Edinburgh and St. Andrews, and the other jointly by the Universities of Glasgow and Aberdeen.
 MR. DISRAELI  thought it would be desirable to finish the clause.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that the question before the House was without a precedent in the English Bill, and demanded the serious consideration of the House.
 MR. BAXTER  said, that if the Amendment of the Lord Advocate was persisted in they would have to consider the vote to which they had recently come. He objected to taking the small towns out of the county of Lanark.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he should have been content to leave the matter to the Boundary Commissioners, only it was impossible for them to deal with it. The better plan would be to deal with the matter by a separate clause.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, that if any alterations were made in the boundary of the suburbs of Glasgow he should move that they have a Member totally independent of the city of Glasgow, as part of the lower ward of Lanarkshire.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK , in rising to move the proviso of which he had given Notice, said, that by reason of the vote arrived at the other night, as he thought upon unfair grounds, ten English boroughs had been disfranchised. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had since proposed to give seven of these ten seats to Scotch burghs. When once a bargain had been arrived at in that House it ought to be maintained with honour on both sides, and last year an honourable bargain was thus made that the additional seats for Scotland should be obtained by a small addition to the number of Members of that House, and should not be taken either from English or Irish boroughs. To support this assertion he would read an extract from the speech of the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing), who said he assumed that the demand of Scotland for additional seats would be met by making a small addition to the number of Members of that House. On the faith of that understanding he and others had voted for the Government; but if he had been told that the additional Members for Scotland would have been taken from England, he, for one, would have strongly opposed the Reform Bill of last year. He did not wish to have the vote of the other night rescinded; but so long as many important districts of England were not fairly represented, he could not consent to give those scats to Scotland. He could not suppose there was any difficulty in increasing the number of Members of that House. The House was already too small, and a plan had been proposed for largely increasing its accommodation, so that he could not suppose an addition of seven votes furnished a reason why a pledge given on both sides of the House should not be kept. The Reform Bill of last year was treated on both sides as a final measure, and. as such, was
 895
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am not at all surprised that my hon. Friend should call attention to the peculiar condition in which the Committee are placed with respect to the settlement made last year. But I must remind my hon. Friend the Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk) that if he accepts, as he seems disposed to do, the vote of the House the other night, by this proposal to apportion these representatives to other ports of England, he really reopens the whole question, and disturbs the settlement of last year. Now, although I regret that the basis on which our present Bill for Scotland was founded was not agreed to, yet by taking a certain number of scats from England and giving them to Scotland you do not re-open the English Bill; whereas, if you follow the scheme of my hon. Friend you do re-open the whole question of the English Reform Bill, chaos will come again, and instead of arriving at the settlement which has been promised we should embark on "a sea of troubles," and our course might end in disaster. I agree with my hon. Friend in his general views and feelings on this subject. I should be glad if I could have obtained that advantage of increasing the representation of Scotland by adding to the Members of this House; but I found that this was not possible. We have been engaged on this work for two years. It has been a very severe and difficult labour, and I think that, on the whole, we have arrived at a conclusion which will be satisfactory to the country. Both sides of this House acting with considerable unanimity,
 896
 MR. BERUSFORD HOPE  said, he trusted that the hon. Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk) would divide. The Amendment, in fact, raised an important question of principle— that of the number of the House of Commons— which they had not yet had an opportunity of discussing.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he regarded the proviso as only rendering still more bitter the pill which the Members for the small English boroughs, of whom he was one, had to swallow.
 MR. TAYLOR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If he can state when the Correspondence relating to the importation of Polynesian labourers into Queensland will be laid upon the Table?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  replied, that, in answer to the Question put to him by the hon. Member for Belfast some time ago, he stated that it was not the intention of the Government to propose during the present Session the repeal of the Party Processions Act. He also stated that he thought that, after the authoritative and lucid manner in which the law had been stated by Mr. Justice Fitzgerald, it was quite clear that no uncertainty as to the state of the law could exist. That learned Judge laid down that there were three things necessary to constitute a breach of the law. The first was, that there should be an assembling together in procession; the second was, that there should be the bearing of flags and emblems; and the third was, that the wearing of distinctive sashes and symbols should be such as was calculated to provoke animosity and ill-feeling between various classes of Her Majesty's subjects. At the same time he (the Earl of Mayo) stated that any uncertainty which could possibly arise, must arise from juries taking different views as to the meaning of the words "calculated to provoke animosity and ill-feeling between various classes of Her Majesty's subjects." The Government had considered these words with the greatest care, with a view, if possible, to render them more clear; but they had come to the decision that such an amendment as was proposed was impossible, and that these words could not be altered with-
 815
 MR. GILPIN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If any decision has been arrived at as to the substitution of another island for that of St. Thomas as the Harbour and Depôt of the West India and Pacific Mails; and, if he will consent that no change or renewal of the existing contract shall be sanctioned by the Government till the whole subject has been submitted to the examination of a Committee of this House, with power to take evidence?
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, he rose for the purpose of asking a Question of the Government, and, as he intended to make a few observations, he should, in order to put himself in Order, conclude with a Motion. He did not often trespass upon the attention of the House, and on the present occasion he should be as brief as he generally was. It was his duty in February last year to ask the Government a question with respect to certain prosecutions then conducted against General Nelson and Lieutenant Brand. He merely asked, without entering into the circumstances of the case, whether those officers, having really obeyed orders to the best of their ability, and being brought by a legal quibble before the Courts of Law in this country, the Government proposed affording them the fullest legal assistance? The answer he received from the right hon. Gentleman, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, was that he had no doubt whatever that when an officer in her Majesty's service, obeying the commands of his superior officer, performed acts which were afterwards legally impugned, it would of course be the duty of the Government to defend him. The officers whom he had just named were accordingly defended by counsel appointed by the Treasury, or some Department of the War Office. These prosecutions had now taken a new phase, and a Governor, whom a large portion of the people of this country considered to have done his duty, and to have saved one of the most noble colonies which England possessed, and which this country had held for nearly two centuries, was now arraigned before a Court of Justice for doing that which he had deemed to be his duty. It was not his intention to enter into the merits of the case, which had now gone before another tribunal; but he would simply ask the Government whether, after having sent out a Royal Commission to inquire into the conduct of this Governor—a man who had raised himself entirely by his own ability to the situation he held, and who, whether rightly or wrongly, considered that he was only performing his duty in what he did— they meant now to leave him to subscriptions raised through the medium of advertisements in the newspapers, or whether
 837
 MR. GILPIN  said, he thought it much to be regretted that these persistent Questions should be put in the House at a time when the matter to which they referred was  sub judice.
 COLONEL JERVIS  rose to Order. The hon. Gentleman was answering that which he had never stated. He had carefully avoided all references to the Jamaica dispute.
 MR. BRIGHT : I rise, Sir, for the purpose of putting a Question on a very different subject, and I put it with extreme pain, with a great sense of responsibility as far as I am personally concerned, and with no less an appreciation of the responsibility of the Minister to whom I am about to address it — the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. It is with reference to a paragraph that has appeared in the newspapers announcing the decision of the Home Office in the case of the convict Barrett. I know that many Members of the House will blame me for the course I am taking; but at the same time, I beg they will believe me when I say that I never rose to say anything in this House under a stronger sense that it was my duty to say it, or with a greater feeling of pain than I experience in intruding a subject of this nature on their attention. I am not about to make a speech at all; but the House knows that on two occasions the execution of this convict has been postponed, first for a week and afterwards for another week; that an inquiry has been made, conducted on the part of the convict by friends of his, and by his counsel and solicitor, and on the part of the Home Office by some gentlemen sent down to Glasgow from that Department. At least one of the investigations was held in public. The other, I believe, was not; but I am not about to challenge either the one or the other. I merely state this to show the amount of care that has been taken in their conduct; for the right hon. Gentleman has taken great pains, I believe with the view of ascertaining the truth in this
 833 "When the life of man is in debate No time can be too long, no pains too great."' 834
 MR. GILPIN  said, he had no previous intention of addressing the House on the subject; but he felt keenly in reference to it, and took an opposite view to that taken by the hon. and gallant Member. He would rejoice if a jury found Governor Eyre not guilty of those charges. All that he claimed on behalf of the humanity and justice of England was that Governor Eyre should have a fair trial, in order that the poorest of our colonists should know that the protection of the Queen was over him, whether lie lived in her Eastern or her Western dependencies.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, that on Friday evening he rose to put a Question to the hon. Member for Westminster which the rules of the House prevented him from doing, of which, no doubt, the hon. Member (Mr. Stuart Mill) was very glad. He now wished to ask the Government whether their attention had been called to a letter in  The Times Cries of
 COLONEL STUART KNOX : My object is that the people of this country shall know that a Gentleman called Charles Buxton,—["Order!"]—I believe a Member of this House, has written such letter— ["Order, order!"]
 MAJOR ANSON  paid, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is his intention to consolidate the pay of officers and sergeant-instructors of musketry and gymnastics, and reduce the amount on the plea that they only receive working pay, and do not work on Sundays; and, if so, whether this system of retrenchment will he extended to the War Office, and the pay of the clerks in that department diminished by an amount equal to fifty-two days per annum?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to know, Whether musketry instructors were employed by the year, month, or hour?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, in answer to the Inquiry of my hon. and gallant Friend, I would remind him that this question had been considered by the Government somewhat more than a year ago, when he made an inquiry of me in this House. Her Majesty's Government have seen no reason whatever to doubt the judiciousness of the course they then took, and which was officially, I believe, communicated to Governor Eyre. General Nelson and Lieutenant Brand were, without doubt, officers obeying the command of a superior officer; and it was the opinion of the Government, that it would be their duty to defend any officer in that position if his conduct were attacked, and if he were subjected to a prosecution. But the case of Governor Eyre appeared to be quite of a different character; and without going, on a question like this, unnecessarily into detail, Her Majesty's Ministers were of opinion that it was not part of their duty to undertake the defence of Governor Eyre; but that it was their duty to watch the proceedings at the trial, to make themselves acquainted with the evidence brought against Governor Eyre, and otherwise produced; to form their opinion when in possession of that evidence; and if they thought, after the trial, that it was their duty to make a proposition to Parliament to support Governor Eyre in the defence he had made, they would not shrink from performing their duty in those cir-
 839
 MR. ADDERLEY  stated, in reply, that the Bill of the Queensland Legislature, guarding against any abuse of immigration from the South Sea Islands, had only reached the Colonial Office that day, and the Government had not had time to consider it. The allegations of abuse from various quarters had been referred back to those who made them for their authority, and when the answers had been received the Paper should be laid on the table.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the greater portion of the speech of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire) was not in accordance with the mere Question, of which he had given Notice, The hon. Member had made statements with reference to cases of riot, for which numerous persons had been committed and were to be tried. It seemed to him (Mr. Newdegate) that this was not fair, and that it looked like an attempt to prejudice cases of men who are now  sub judice. 831 The Confessional Unmasked, per se, The Confessional Unmasked 832
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to Order. He was far from wishing to deprive the hon. Member of any latitude the House might wish to accord him; but he hoped the hon. Member would not depart from the usual —["Order."]
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, everyone must feel with the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire) how disgraceful and discreditable the riots which have occurred in the North of England have been to the parties concerned; and I cannot sufficiently deplore and condemn the excesses committed in Ashton in the wrecking of a whole street, and the destruction of a Roman Catholic chapel. At the same time, I do not think that the hon. Gentleman has been altogether just to the magistrates
 823 824 825
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, in rising again I have to ask the permission of the House, because I have already spoken upon this Motion. I have nothing to complain of in the manner, the tone, or the language in which the hon. Gentleman addressed me in calling my attention to this momentous subject; nor, I think, can he exaggerate the importance which belongs to the office which the Home Secretary has to discharge in cases in which appeals are made to him to recommend an exercise of the prerogative of mercy; and more especially in a case such as this, which involves a question of life and death. I will just explain to the House very briefly the position in which this case stands. Upon the trial of the man who now lies under sentence of death evidence was called for the defence, setting up an  alibi alibi 835 alibi alibi 836
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied, that he was informed that the purchase of land in the city of Durham was not for the purpose of County Courts, but for the construction of offices in connection with the County Courts; and the reason why the building was not proceeded with was because the Estimate connected with County Courts was already very large, and it was thought desirable to give the money to those towns where the accommodation of County Courts was wanted. Durham already had a County Court well adapted for its purpose.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the sums paid for postage in India, Australia, and England were divided, after certain deductions, equally among the contributory countries; and if the hon. Member moved for a Return of the sums divided, and of the manner of the division for 1867 and the current year, that Return would give a more clear explanation of the point than any statement he could now make.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, it has been proposed by the Government to extend the existing contract for a limited period but in the contract provision is made for the substitution of some other station for St. Thomas, and the Government have been collecting information on the subject and are about to take it into consideration, with the view of arriving at an early decision. It would not conduce to a speedy or satisfactory decision if the matter were now submitted to a Committee of this House. The hon. Member must recollect that, in accordance with the usual
 816
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he hoped the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) had been mere badinage, and that he had not gravely called attention to the orange ribands at the meeting of the Protestant
 828
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that on a previous occasion the hon. Member for Cashel (Mr. O'Beirne) challenged him to prove a certain statement; but after an hour spent in vainly attempting to appeal to the honour and rectitude of the hon. Member, so as to be allowed to redeem the pledge, the Speaker interposed, and he had to desist. If he had said anything offensive to the hon. Member for Cork he exceedingly regretted it; and he was sorry he could not believe that the hon. Member had the least intention or expectation of a Commission being granted.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that as the hon. Member had placed no Notice on the Paper of any investigation he was not justified in making the statements he had made. He believed that, although the hon. Member was of course unconscious of the fact, the statement he had made was the exact reverse of the truth. Would the House permit him to state what he knew on the subject? He had stated that he would be answerable for the statements of Mr. Murphy. Upon two occasions, when Mr. Murphy was lecturing in Birmingham, he had made inquiries in order to ascertain whether the reports of his lectures in the London newspapers were correct, because if they had been he should have withdrawn from the society that sent Mr. Murphy forth. He found, however, that these reports of what Mr. Murphy had said were entirely fabricated, and that not one word of the kind had been uttered by Mr. Murphy. No doubt the tendency of the proceedings was towards the effect mentioned by the right hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Milner Gibson) but that was solely through the reading of documents furnished by Popery itself. Instead of answering him, an organization of men, boys, women, and girls had been got, and this was the cause of the riots at Wolverhampton, Birmingham, and other places. The question was, whether there should be the right of public discussion on these matters in our towns. Why, there was scarcely the right to speak in that House. He most cordially supported the suggestion that there should be an investigation into this subject.
 MR. PAULL  said, he wished to call attention to the extreme inconvenience of that Motion having been made at all. The custom, often stated by Mr. Speaker, and which he thought amounted to a rule, was that Motions for the adjournment of the House ought not to be made unless some pressing emergency existed; and, he thought it would be a very advantageous thing if Mr. Speaker, on such occasions as the present, enforced his opinion to that effect.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the gallant Colonel was out of Order. The gallant Colonel could not limit the observations of another hon. Member upon the subject he had introduced.
 MR. SPEAKER : There is a Motion before the House upon which it is competent for any Member to address the House; but I pointed out that to address a Question upon such a subject to the Government is not pertinent to the argument of any Question before the House, and I think it ought not to be introduced.
 MR. SPEAKER : So far as I understand, the Question proposed by the hon. Member is a Question addressed to a Member of the Government, whether they have formed an opinion of a letter written by a Gentleman on a subject not connected with anything before this House?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member must not repeat what he had already been told was not in Order or Parliamentary.
 MR. SPEAKER : Certainly not.
 MR. HENDERSON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why so much time has been wasted and the best season of the year for building purposes allowed to pass away without any progress having been made towards the erection of the new County Courts in the city of Durham, Government having purchased and had possession of a site for that purpose several months, and the house where the present Courts are held being most inconvenient and entirely unfit for the conduct of public business?
 MR. MAGUIRE  rose to Order. Was it Parliamentary for a Member to say that another Member had distinctly told a lie?
 829
 MR. MAGUIRE , who had given Notice to ask the Secretary of State for the Home
 818 819
 MR. MAGUIRE  explained that he had read from the paper because he did not wish to quote from memory, which might prove fallible. Murphy stated in his programme that he intended to make the tour of all these places, and he (Mr. Maguire) asked if the local authorities and the Home Office were prepared to accept the challenge Murphy had given to them? Were they prepared to prevent the preaching of disunion, and to take steps for the preservation of the peace? He (Mr. Maguire) wished that his countrymen would not mind this man; but that was asking from them more than human nature was capable of. He knew also that their clergymen had given them the best advice. The disciples and followers of Murphy wherever they met the Roman Catholics in the Lancashire districts retailed the infamous statements they heard from Murphy's platform, offending fathers, mothers, and sisters and brothers in their dearest and most sacred feelings. The Catholic clergy were outraged in every way, and were actually afraid for their lives, having received frequent threats, and the nuns in the district were made the subjects of the vilest and grossest abuse. The book called  Maria monk, 822 "That the undersigned magistrates and others whose names and descriptions are herein underwritten, humbly request that a Commission be issued by Her Majesty's Government to inquire into the late riots at Ashton-under-Lyne, the cause of these riots, and the proceedings of the authorities, with the view to the Commission pointing out remedial measures for the suppression of such conduct as has been and is now affecting the manufacturing districts of Lancashire." "I am an old officer who has served in the four quarters of the globe, and I have commanded many hundreds of Irishmen and Catholics with the greatest satisfaction. I am an elder of the Presbyterian Kirk; but I have an utter contempt for those who insult others through the religion in which they were born and bred."
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he believed he was perfectly in Order. He did not wish to do anything to cause ill-feeling in the House or out of it. His only object was to put an end to a state of things which caused bad blood throughout the community, and to enable men of different religious views to live in peace and amity. For the last three or four months the people of Ashton had been kept in constant fear and apprehension by the advent of these emissaries of disturbance; and he liad it on the authority of a clergyman that during that time the Roman Catholics had been obliged to stop up night after night to protect their churches and schools. On the 9th instant there was a great tea party, consisting of about 1,000 persons, most of them wearing Orange ribbons. On the next day, which was Sunday, there was an Orange procession. He was sorry to say that the Irish were provoked, and no doubt they were parties to the riot that ensued; but it should be remembered that they had been systematically provoked for months previously. After they were dispersed, at a late hour of the night two Catholic chapels were nearly gutted, and the houses in several of the streets in which the Irish dwelt were wrecked. His complaint was, that the magistrates did not take any active steps to suppress that riot. He made that assertion on the authority of a letter he had received from Mr. Aspland, Chairman of the Lancashire county magistrates, a gentleman who was not a Catholic, but, he believed, a Unitarian, and a man of the highest character. Mr. Aspland stated that the riot was allowed to proceed for four hours without any attempt being made to cheek it. The riot, which commenced on the Sunday, was continued on the Monday morning
 820 821
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, To
 817
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he should; not do his duty if he did not make a remark or two with respect to the conduct of the magistrates of Ashton during the recent disturbances, as it had been impugned by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire). He had gone into this matter with considerable care, and he had come to an entirely opposite conclusion from that of the hon. Gentleman. His conclusion was, that the magistrates and chief constable had shown remarkable skill and firmness, accompanied by moderation, in dealing with the riots. It should always be remembered that the police force of a borough was not constituted to deal with a riot every day in the week, and when a disturbance such as that under discussion sprang up unexpectedly and suddenly, of course the magistrates were placed in considerable difficulty. He begged the House, however, to take this strong fact into account, that, although there was a deplorable destruction of property in one or two streets, and the homes of some of the poor Irish were sacked and their furniture burnt, yet the riots were put an end to without the loss of a single life, and he believed there was only one person who could be said to have received any serious personal injury. As the Secretary of State had said, the rioting on Sunday was not considerable, and, though unexpected by the authorities, it was put down by means of the police and special constables with comparatively little difficulty. It commenced again on Monday evening, and what did the magistrates do? Mr. Mason wrote a letter to the commanding officer, who was in barracks not a mile distant, to keep his troops in readiness, and he also wrote and carried about in his pocket another letter, and kept a mounted messenger by his side to take it to the officer, requiring him to put his men in motion without delay. The magistrates, of course, acted with him, and constables were placed in all parts of the town to watch, so that the force collected at the Town Hall, consisting of special constables and a large body of county and borough police, might be sent to any point where a
 826 827
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether, in the opinion of the Government, the time is not arrived when it would be wiser to repeal the Party Processions Act (Ireland); and whether, in their opinion, the preservation of the public peace could not be equally secured by a strict administration of the Common Law of the land?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to state a material fact to show that Mr. Murphy's lectures ought to be put an end to. He had himself been present at one of these meetings at Chelmsford, and had not only heard Murphy say that all the convents in England ought to be burnt, but had heard him incite a mob of the lowest description to go and burn the neighbouring convent of New Hall. [Mr. WHALLEY: What did he say?] He (Sir George Bowyer) should be the last man to wish to restrict fair discussion; but when a lecturer incited those before him to commit crimes and breaches of the peace that was not fair discussion. In the course of those outrages churches had been destroyed, the houses of Roman Catholics had been gutted, offences against the peace had been committed; there were disturbances wherever Mr. Murphy went; and the reason was that he did not restrict himself to fair discussion, but incited the people to commit outrages against the law. These occurrences deserved the serious consideration of the Secretary of State, in order that he might put a stop to meetings which were not held for purposes of discussion.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he did not think they were appointed by the year, or for any exact period. They were appointed for a certain duty, and for so long as their assistance was required
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, there were several classes of persons under the War Office performing continuous duty, and it was proposed that they should all be paid on the same principle.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  rose to Order. He objected to the hon. Gentleman reading from a newspaper.
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, he had ascertained that it would suit the convenience of the Irish Representatives if the Committee on the Irish Reform Bill were taken on Thursday fortnight (Juno 25); he would, therefore, fix it for that day and arrange that it should be the first Order of the Day.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What truth there is in the statement in the China Newspapers that our Ambassador in Japan, on a first visit of ceremony to the Mikado, or Emperor of Japan at Kioto, accompanied by a European escort, was attacked by Japanese and twelve of the escort wounded; and whether twelve of the crew of a boat belonging to the French ship of war  Dupleix
 LORD STANLEY : It is true that Sir Harry Parkes, on his way to pay a visit of
 923
 MR. FREVILLE-SURTEES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any Correspondence has taken place between the Foreign Office and Her Majesty's Consul General in Egypt relative to the claims on the Viceroy of the shareholders of the Société Agricole et Industrielle d'Egypte; and, if so, whether he would have any objection to present the Correspondence?
 LORD STANLEY  replied, that a Correspondence had taken place on the subject referred to in his hon. Friend's Question. It had not yet been concluded, and though, as far as the Foreign Office was concerned, there was no objection to its production, he did not think it would be in the interest of the parties concerned to publish it in its present state.
 MR. GLADSTONE : There can be no doubt, Sir, of the judicious nature of the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposes with regard to the Vote of Thanks. But I wish to say one word upon a subject to which a Question put just now referred. I am not surprised that the Government should take time to consider what measures they may have to propose
 926
 MR. BAYLEY POTTER  seconded the Resolution.
 MR. W. LOWTHER  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) had rather exaggerated the abuses of the Diplomatic Service. Having been long connected with the Foreign Office himself, he might state his conviction that no Department was better or more efficiently administered. The evidence given in 1861, before the Diplomatic Committee, by Mr. Cunningham, the then chief clerk, and Mr. Hammond, permanent Under Secretary, showed that this sum of £180,000, fixed in 1832, was admirably administered, there having frequently been a surplus, while the amount had never been exceeded. Were the control transferred to the House, he believed the expenditure would be considerably greater, for the House was excessively amiable in money matters. Would any gentleman's private garden of the same extent cost £7,138, as was the case with the garden at Hampton Court? If the Foreign Office had any fault it was in being too stingy. Ministers, for instance, were sometimes removed to a different post after two years, and were thereby put to great expense, in some cases losing a great deal of money which they had expended on their houses, in the expectation that they would be permanently located there. Their successors felt themselves under no obligation to compensate them, and if they applied to the Foreign Office, the noble Lord and the Under Secretary not having time to attend to such details, the matter was probably decided by some crusty, gouty gentlemen, who objected to paying anything which they could avoid. It was true Ambassadors had an allowance for outfit; but this did not meet the expenses of removal, since they could not travel about with a carpet-bag or portmanteau. He thought the longer a system which worked so economically was continued the better.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) in his by no means unfair, but somewhat desultory observations, had travelled over a wide range of subjects, fully to discuss which would require considerable time. The first point he had touched upon was the subject of Diplomatic pensions; and he had said that those pensions amounted to £40,000. If the hon. Member would look at the list, however, he would find that instead of £40,000 they were only a little over £24,000.
 LORD STANLEY  said, a large number of those upon the retired list were of a very advanced age. One of them was Lord Stratford de Redcliffe—another, a gentleman who retired thirty years ago. Similar allowances were given under various names in all branches of the public service; and he did not think the rate exorbitant. Only the last three names upon the pension list, however, had been placed there by him; and those, supersessions rendered necessary by the recent alterations and amalgamations in foreign countries. With regard to the question of agencies, that was a large and important subject; and he had not concealed his opinion that the system was not, in principle, a satisfactory one, nor one which ought to be continued in any public Department, though he did not believe it had led to much abuse. It was, however, not correct that any gentleman could make £2,000 a year by the percentages he received. The gentlemen concerned had accepted the agencies which they held with the full sanction and knowledge of their superiors in office, and in his opinion it would not be fair to take those fees away without granting compensation. Referring to another subject, the House would recollect that nearly all the German Missions—about which so much was said a few years ago—had been abolished, and that we had at present only the Embassy at Vienna, that at Berlin, and minor Missions at two other South German Courts. Those Courts were now in a state of transition, and the present would not be a favourable moment for withdrawing the Missions. There might be cases where
 933 934 935 936
 LORD STANLEY  said, that what he had stated was not that the individual Judges were in a parallel position, but that the sum appropriated to the payment of the Judges was in a parallel position.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he could bear witness to the great care with which the noble Lord watched over the expenditure connected with his Department. A great principle was involved in this question, and nothing whatever had been said to prove that this particular item ought to be withdrawn from the immediate control of Parliament. He believed that the noble Lord had defended the system in such a manner as he would have done if he had entertained very strong convictions on the subject; and he hoped, therefore, he would accede to the Motion before the House.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the First
 927
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will be good enough to take care that the Accounts and Estimates connected with the Metropolitan Police are laid on the Table before he proceeds with the Second Reading of the Bill with reference to the Metropolitan Police Act, which has only been in the hands of Members a very few days?
 MR. DISRAELI : In rising, Sir, to move that the House at its rising do adjourn till Thursday, I wish to recall to the recollection of the House that I gave Notice a few days ago of the intention of the Government to propose on Friday a Vote of Thanks to Sir Robert Napier and the Army in Abyssinia. At that time we had received no despatches from Sir Robert Napier, and owing to various circumstances the Government were under the impression that the despatches had been lost. The Notice had already been delayed on this account, but within the last forty-eight hours information has arrived which leads us to believe that these despatches in a few days may reach the Government. It must be obvious to the House that it would be far more convenient and satisfactory that the thanks of the House should be founded on the Despatches of the Commander-in-Chief, and therefore I propose to postpone this Vote until after the holidays. I now move that the House at its rising do adjourn till Thursday.
 MR. DISRAELI : The subject, Sir, to which the hon. Gentleman refers is now, and has been for some time, under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government. I am bound to say that the difficulties connected with it are greater than were at first contemplated; but I trust these difficulties may be overcome.
 MR. DISRAELI : We propose on Friday evening to adjourn to the following Thursday.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that the Despatches which had been received would be presented to the House in the course of a week.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to correct a misapprehension arising out of what he was supposed to have said last evening. He did not say, referring to a friend of his, a late Member of this House, Sir John Tyrrell, that a Romish Priest attempted "to convert a female member of his family by placing in her hands a book referred to in the work known as  The Confessional Unmasked. The Confessional Unmasked
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he was glad to hear the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) express himself in terms which did not imply an intention of offering any serious resistance to the views of the House on this subject. The existing system was a direct infringement of the constitutional maxim that the public purse was in the hands of the House of Commons. The noble Lord, he might; remark, was not responsible for the system, which on former occasions had been most strenuously supported by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, and also by the late Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, with his
 939
 MR. GREENE , in rising to move "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to issue a Royal Commission to inquire into Colliery Accidents," said, he might be asked why he, who had no connection with mines, should bring such a subject before the House. His answer was, that he, in common with others, deeply felt the calamity of accidents in coal mines, and considered it a subject well worthy of the Legislature. Even should the debate be unproductive of any practical good, the
 940 941 942 943 d. 944
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, the accounts have been laid before the House, and will be printed shortly. The inquiry to which the hon. Gentleman refers has no relation to anything contained in them, and, therefore, the Papers relating to it will not facilitate the discussion of the measure. I shall put the Bill down for second reading for a day after Whitsuntide.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, my attention had not been called to the passage in Mr. Justice Mellor's charge until the hon. Member put his Notice upon the Paper. I have made inquiry, and I understand the Judge's reference to the subject arose from two certificates having been given of the deaths of persons who were not actually dead. Men affected to have been present at the houses or at the deathbeds of those represented to have been dead, and they brought with them certificates from medical practitioners stating the cause of death in each case. They had gone to the medical practitioners, stating that the persons were dead, and the medical men, remembering that they had attended them for certain complaints, without further inquiry gave certificates stating that the deaths had resulted from those complaints, while in fact neither person was dead. Under the Registration Act the Registrar is to receive, either from a person pie-sent at the deathbed, or some one in the house, a statement of the death and of the cause of it, and the usual practice is to obtain from a medical man, if one has been in attendance, the statement of the cause of death. The Registrar is not bound to go and see that the person is dead, but under the statute he is to receive the statement from those who were present or who are cognizant of the facts; and if these persons make a misrepresentation, under a recent statute they are liable to penal servitude. With respect to the second part of the Question, I have had no complaint from the Coroner of London; indeed, he has written to me since the Notice was given to say that he has no complaint to make. There were some complaints from Manchester, and there has been some correspondence between the Coroner of Manchester and the Home Office, and, in consequence, be-
 922
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to bring forward any Measure, and, if any, what Measure, for the purpose of shortening the period which, under the existing Law, must intervene before a General Election can take place under the
 925
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, a contract had been made with the Union Steam Shipping Company, for the conveyance of an intermediate Monthly Mail between England and the Cape of Good Hope. The proposals for it were made so long ago as the early part of last year; they were accepted by the Treasury in June of last year; but circumstances had occurred which had delayed the execution
 924
 MR. LABOUCHERE , in reply, observed that both the present and former Secretary to the Treasury—who might be supposed to know what was the best for economy in conducting the finances—were in favour of his proposition. He hoped the noble Lord would not put the House to the trouble of a division.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he rose to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, all sums required to defray the expenses of the Diplomatic Service ought to be annually voted by Parliament, and that Estimates of all such sums ought to be submitted in a form that will admit of their effectual supervision and control by this House." 928 en bloc 929 930 Toison d' Or 931
 MR. LABOUCHERE  explained that what he meant to say was, not that £40,000 was paid for pensions, but that that sum was set apart for the purpose, and it encouraged the giving of such pensions. Even £24,000 was too much to give to gentlemen who were capable of active service.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he did not think that the cases were at all parallel. The Judges of the Superior Courts held their offices during good behaviour, and it was perfectly right that their salaries should not be cut down by the vote of the House, but should stand in the same position as persons whose salaries were charged on the Civil List. But Her Majesty's Ministers abroad did not hold their offices during good behaviour, and there was no reason
 938
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was rather disappointed at finding that the noble Lord did not feel himself in a position to accede to the Motion, and the more so as he had understood from the statement of the noble Lord last year that he was in favour of that change. The Foreign Office expended annually about £640,000, and out of that amount £180,000 was the sum for Diplomatic salaries and pensions, which formed the subject of his hon. Friend's Motion. What he wished the House to consider, and what the noble Lord had not justified, was this—why that £180,000 should be handed over as a lump to the Foreign Minister to be used in that particular way, whereas all the rest of the £640,000 was included in the regular Estimates laid every year on the table of the House. If the whole of the Foreign Office expenditure were placed in the hands of the Minister, and he were tied down as to its amount, there might be some sense in laying that charge on the Consolidated Fund. But that was not what happened. What practically occurred was this, that a certain part of the Foreign Office expenditure was taken out of the usual review of Parliament; whereas if the expenses connected with foreign affairs fluctuated up and down that fluctuation appeared in the Estimates. The services for China and Japan appeared on the Estimates; but our
 937 attachés.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If any Contract has been effected with the Union Steam Shipping Company for the conveyance of an intermediate Monthly Mail between England and the Cape of Good Hope; if he will have any objection to lay all Correspondence and Contracts with the said Company upon the Table of the House; and if, previously to concluding any such Contract or Contracts, tenders were invited from, or offers made by, any-other Company for the performance of this Mail Service, or any part thereof?
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the following passage in a charge to the Grand Jury at Liverpool in March last by Mr. Justice Mellor:—
 921 "In conclusion the learned judge referred to frauds recently practised upon burial societies, and said that, in many cases he feared that the registration of death was a mere farce. In one of these cases, he said, the doctor had given a certificate of death without being aware that the person was dead; and if such was the usual practice, and he was told it was, the sooner it was changed the better."
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House the Despatches from the Governor of Victoria brought by the last Mail?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that as the salaries of Ministers of the Crown came before the House in the Estimates, he did not see why those of the Diplomatic Service should not also be stated clearly in the Estimates.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, To fix some day after the Whitsuntide Recess for the Committee on the Irish Reform Bill, when it could be taken as the first Order of the Day?
 MR. POWELL  said, that as a Member of the Committee of Inquiry into the nature of a colliery district, he wished to offer a few observations on the Motion. At present there was a unanimous feeling throughout all acquainted with the subject that the number of inspectors must be increased. Every one who had read the evidence would admit that many accidents might have been prevented if the inspection had been adequate. It was stated before the Committee that complaints were often made by workmen to the inspectors which brought them to the mines, and one of the inspectors stated that when the mines were visited the reports of the workpeople were usually more than borne out by the facts. The Committee came to a strong and unani-
 945
 MR. W. JACKSON  said, he did not rise to oppose the Motion, for there was not a single well-considered suggestion for the safety of their mines that, the coalowners of the district with which he was connected were not most willing to comply with. He agreed that the present inspection was not sufficient. Many new collieries had been opened in his district, but no new inspectors had been appointed. The present inspectors were overworked. He did not think the remedy was in increasing the number of sub-inspectors, but in dividing the present districts, which were too large, and appointing an additional number of inspectors. He regretted that the hon. Member who had brought forward this subject was not better acquainted with it; but on behalf of the colliery owners he would say that there were no measures of safety and precaution which the Government could devise which they were not most anxious to adopt. The pecuniary loss of an explosion was so great that if the coalowners had to pay for the inspectors themselves it would be a cheaper thing than the liability to accidents without inspection. He had not been a member of the Select Committee; but he had read the Report and the evidence, and he trusted that the Government would carry their Resolutions into effect.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that the studded shot system hitherto adopted with heavy rifled ordnance has been, or is about to be, abandoned; and, if so, whether he is prepared to state the causes which have rendered such course necessary, and to produce the Report or Reports of the Ordnance Select Committee on the subject, or of the experiments which have led to it; whether any trials have been made of a proposed new system submitted to the Government of rifling heavy ordnance with perfect semi-circular projections raised in the gun, and corresponding semi-circular grooves in the shot, thus strengthening the gun itself and making it and the shot both rifled; and whether he is prepared to produce any Report made on such proposed system, or of the trials thereof, if any such have been made; and, if no trial has been made of such proposed new system for rotating heavy projectiles intended for the penetration of armour-plating, whether he is prepared to state the reasons why such trial has not been made?
 MR. BRUCE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether, the Government having withdrawn their Education Bill, it is their intention to propose the repeal or alteration of Article Eight of the Revised Code, so as to admit Secular Schools to the benefit of the Parliamentary Grant?
 MR. YORKE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, What course the Government propose to take about the three boroughs proposed to be disfranchised by a late Vote of the House, and not assigned to Scotland in the Government scheme of Re-distribution; and, whether
 955
 MR. GLADSTONE : Am I correct in understanding the answer just given, that with the exception of the union of the two counties, Peebles and Selkirk, and the formation of what he calls the border boroughs, the right hon. Gentleman does not intend to go further into the question of re-distribution of counties or towns in Scotland? Is that so?
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, in the  Journal de St. Pétersbowg
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Sir, the correspondence which has been laid upon the table of this House has shown that the conditions which Her Majesty's Government thought necessary to append to the granting of a Charter to a Roman Catholic University have been declined by the right rev. Prelates who were deputed to act in the matter on the part of the Roman Catholic hierarchy of Ireland. Under these circumstances, therefore, we have come to the conclusion that the matter must be considered entirely at an end.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING MAXWELL  said, the Committee had nearly concluded its labours, and was almost ready to report, and he did not think it reasonable that this new duty should be imposed upon the Members. The subject was one which was not submitted to the Boundary Commissioners; the Committee did not think it should be submitted to them, and he therefore hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not press the Instruction.
 MR. CRAUFURD  also hoped the Motion would not be pressed.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, as he understood from his right hon. Friend the Chairman of the Committee (Mr. Walpole) that this was a business that they would not be willing to undertake, he would not press the Motion; but he thought it right to move the Instruction, because a desire had been expressed that the question should be referred to the Committee.
 MR. GRAHAM  said, that there had been great disappointment felt in Scotland at the result of their proceedings last Monday. The claims of the northern part of this island to a larger amount of increased representation than had been ac-
 957 958 959
 THE CHAIRMAN  pointed out that an Amendment of which notice had been given by the Lord Advocate was entitled to precedence.
 MR. GRAHAM  then moved the insertion of words providing that Glasgow be divided into three districts, each returning one Member.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Committee would observe that, if they acceded to those words, they would run counter to the Resolution at which they arrived last year on the English Reform Bill. He wished the House clearly to understand the issue before them, and to consider whether they would rescind their last year's Resolution that minorities should be represented.
 MR. BAXTER  remarked, that when introducing the Irish Bill the noble Lord (the Earl of Mayo) stated that if the House decided to divide Dublin, instead of giving it three Members on the minority principle, he should offer no objection, adding that the Government were no great advocates of that principle, and that he should be sorry to see it applied to any great extent in Ireland. Now, the Scotch Members hoped the Government would consent to do for Scotland what they were willing to do for Ireland.
 MR. SMOLLETT , as a Member caring little for party arrangements, and representing a constituency connected with Glasgow, intended to vote for the Amendment. He had always objected to triangular representation, and voted last Session against the addition of a third Member to Manchester and three other large towns in the North of England. He did so because he thought the system was an improper one, and because it was never palatable even to the constituencies to which it was applied by the Act of 1832, and he looked upon it as perfectly odious now that the extraordinary principle of the representation of minorities had been grafted upon it. The principle of the representation of minorities had been thrust upon that House by the House of Lords, after it had been repudiated in the House of Commons by a majority of 140 votes. It would, he thought, be better to confine the representation of Glasgow to two Members if the three seats were to be coupled with this ridiculous proposal. Glasgow had about 50,000 or 60,000 electors; it would be very difficult to find three gentlemen of position who would come before such a constituency; and he feared that after the first General Election there would be a great deterioration in the Members for that city. He believed that the third Member for Glasgow, under the proposal for the representation of minorities, instead of being a Conservative, would be much more likely to be the worst of the whole lot, and to be either a trades unionist or at all events a delegate
 961
 MR. GLADSTONE  confessed that he much preferred the proposal made by the Government last year with regard to Glasgow to the one which was now before them—he meant the proposal to divide Glasgow into two divisions—one on the north and the other on the south side of the river. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Glasgow (Mr. Graham) now made a proposal to divide Glasgow into three divisions, and to give one Member to each; and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), if he (Mr. Gladstone) understood him aright, objected to the Motion of the hon Member for Glasgow, on the ground that it would in some manner contravene the decision of the House last year. For his own part he should feel that, if it would at all contravene or overturn the
 962
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he hoped the
 963
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, if the Committee agreed to divide Glasgow into three wards, in no one ward would the minority have the slightest chance of representation or of ever obtaining a Member. The proposal of a representation of minorities was spoken of as the plan of the right hon. Member for Calne, but it had been previously adopted by Earl Russell, who proposed to try it in thirty or forty divisions of counties.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he was not quite sure that so large a principle as the representation of minorities ought to be discussed upon this clause. The Government proposed to give three Members to Glasgow: but they also proposed to increase the population returning these Members from 440,000 to 470,000. In the immediate neighbourhood of Glasgow there was a population of 30,000 who were equally connected with the borough, and it would simplify the question if the Government would consent to add 60,000 to the population of 440,000 returning the present Members, making a population of 500,000. They should then divide Glasgow into two divisions, and give two Members to each half. That would be an act of justice, and would save all discussion on this point. He left the matter with confidence to the Government.
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, the Scotch Members seemed already to have forgotten
 964
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he hoped the Committee would not be led away by the bones of Napoleon nor by the assertion that that Motion was a novel experiment. The principles now invoked on the 28th of May were not discussed as principles at all on the 8th of August last. They were last year all too happy to get away from that question, upon which they then voted under the pressure of extreme heat and equal disgust. He should now vote with the hon. Member for Glasgow, not in any spirit of provincialism, about which the hon. Member for Cheltenham (Mr. Schreiber) had lectured them; but because he hoped his vote would be the means of hereafter upsetting the most abominable of all experiments, the representation of minorities in England. He believed that a more mischievous experiment had never been introduced into our legislation. He trusted that all hon. Gentlemen who were shaky on that particular question would keep this in their eye—that by voting for this Motion they would eventually get rid of the representation of minorities.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  was much obliged to his hon. Friend the Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) for having so ingenuously let the cat out of the bag. The hon. Member had confessed that his object in opposing the proposal for bestowing the third Member upon Glasgow upon the minority principle, was the desire to get rid of that principle for England also—
 965
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) had called on Gentlemen on that side to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Graham), holding out to them the inducement of getting rid of the principle of the representation of minorities. That was the strongest possible reason why those who were in favour of the representation of minorities — not as being a Conservative measure, but as a measure of justice—should vote against the present Motion. Nothing could be more unfair than to speak of the representation of
 966
 MR. BRIGHT : I have only this moment entered the House, and have not hoard the discussion; but I wish to take an opportunity of reminding the Committee that last year a majority of more than 140 Members of this House objected to this proposition, and that the circumstances under which it afterwards became law were very peculiar. The right hon. Gentleman now at the head of the Government on that occasion made, what I then described, and I now repeat the observation, as the most earnest and resolute speech which he made during the whole of the Reform Bill discussions, in opposition to the proposition supported by my hon. Friend the Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill). The House, following his advice and the advice of a great many others, by a large majority—more than 140— rejected the proposition. Well, what then happened? The Bill went up to the House of Lords; and what occurred there soon afterwards? The House of Lords proposed some five or six Amendments of various kinds and various degrees of importance in the Bill. It came down to this House for those Amendments to be considered here. I need not state what all those Amendments were; but the two principal ones had reference, the one to the question of the representation of minorities, and the other to voting papers. The minority clause was the last of the Lords' Amendments that came to be considered in this House. All their other Amendments, as they were brought before the House, were rejected. The voting papers, which had been agreed to in the other House, were rejected in this. We came then to this question, whether this minority clause—being the only one of the Amendments of the other House which we had not rejected—should be rejected like the rest, or should be consented to? Then what happened was this. I speak it from no mean authority. I know exactly the truth of what I am saying, it was felt by Her Majesty's Government that if this
 967 968 969 970
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSAY  said, he wished, as a representative of a minority county, to say a few words on the plea of justice. If the principle of representation of minorities was not to be maintained in large towns it ought not to be maintained in counties. When last year he voted for that measure, being a Member for a minority county, he did so under the distinct belief that the principle would be extended to large towns also, being of opinion that by such an arrangement the spirit of Conservatism might be kept alive in the great centres of industry. But if the principle were now to be broken through, and towns were to be exempted from this system, he maintained that counties ought also to be exempted. In such an event the whole matter ought to be re-considered, for we ought not to legislate for Scotland in a different spirit from that in which we legislated for England. He felt that this was the first step towards dividing the country into equal electoral districts, and he trusted the House would not make an experiment in that direction.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was one of those who gave a silent but unhesitating vote in favour of the experiment that was tried last year, and he thought it perfectly fair that they should also try the experiment proposed by the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Graham). It was quite evident that the experiment of last year was altogether novel; it was the first time in the history of the representation of this country that such a principle had been applied; and if the present also were a novel experiment he should not shrink from trying it at a moment when they were making; these great changes in the electoral system. But it was not in the same sense an ex-
 971
 MR. JOHN HARDY  said, that what was called the minority principle was last year supported on the grounds that it put an end to the monopoly of large towns; and there was no reason why a man living in one borough should have three times as many votes as a man living in another borough. The system of representation of minorities would, in his opinion, act as a check upon large constituencies, which might otherwise demand more than their fair share of Members. Manchester, for instance, had, he believed, asked no less than seven, and he did not know to what extent the claims of Birmingham had been urged; but now that this principle of the representation of minorities had been adopted there was less danger of such demands being made in future. If Glasgow wanted to try an experiment he would not divide it, but would let each man give a single vote, and then each representative would be really elected by his supporters.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, they all knew that the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) was a devoted adherent to American principles. ["Oh, oh!"] Gentlemen might demur to the remark; but the hon. Member had openly and manfully avowed it over and over again in that House.
 MR. BRIGHT : I beg leave to say, Sir, that there is not a syllable of truth in what the hon. Member has said. ["Order!"]
 THE CHAIRMAN : I beg to call the attention of the hon. Member for Bir-
 972
 MR. BRIGHT : The hon. Gentleman said that I was a devoted adherent of American principles, and that I had openly avowed them. In return I say that such a charge is entirely without foundation. I have no doubt the hon. Member has made the observation under a mistake. I myself beg to assure him that he is entirely mistaken, and that there is not the least foundation for the statement he has made.
 MR. LIDDELL  felt bound to accept the explanation. But whether the hon. Member for Birmingham was an admirer of American principles or not he had proved himself at least an admirer of American manners. The hon. Gentleman disliked the application of the principle under consideration to Birmingham, because he knew that the minority in that place, which had so long been kept under subjection by the iron will of the majority, was about to be emancipated. That was the true reason why he viewed the scheme with disfavour which the House solemnly established last year. It was getting too much the fashion to forget what was done last year. But the principle of the representation of minorities was adopted after one of the fullest and ablest discussions that took place last Session. He had merely risen for the purpose of putting a single question to the House. He desired to know whether there was anything specially sacred or peculiar about Glasgow, or whether it was be wholly different from other places that it should have special principles of legislation applied to it? That was the second time in the course of the week that a totally new principle of legislation was sought to be introduced with respect to Glasgow. First of all they were asked to give Glasgow four Members, and now they were asked to divide it into wards. He deprecated such a course of action. The minority plan was applied to all other towns which had three Members; and what was good for the great towns of England must be beneficial for the great towns of Scotland, and he therefore trusted that the House would abide by the system established last Session.
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not exactly understand the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Oxford (Mr. Cardwell). He voted last year, he
 973
 MR. HORSMAN  denied that the principle sought to be established by the hon. Member for Glasgow was unknown to the Constitution. At the time of the Reform Bill of 1832 the metropolis was divided upon the same principle as that now proposed, the only difference being that each ward in the City of London was to have two Members instead of one.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there was a still more recent precedent in the division of the borough of the Tower Hamlets last year. It was only just that the representation of a large place should be influenced
 974
 MR. BAYLEY POTTER  said, that the division of large boroughs into wards was a proposal which had been stamped with the approval of to high an authority as Mr. Cobden, who expressed favourable views of it in a letter which he wrote in 1865. He (Mr. Potter) would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Graham).
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he believed the decision come to last year was injurious, absurd, and derogatory to the dignity of the House. He would support the Amendment, although he would have preferred to have given three votes to the electors constituting the majority in Glasgow.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he altogether objected to the extension of the borough of Glasgow. He did not want to be compelled to vote against the proposition that each elector should only have two votes. If, however, he had to vote on the whole clause be would have to vote against it.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. BOUVERIE  then moved as an Amendment to leave out all the words after "comprise the" to the end of the clause, for the purpose of inserting "existing Parliamentary boundaries," the object being to limit the constituency to those boundaries.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, that by adopting the Amendment they would withdraw the franchise from 7,300 electors—a principle which was opposed to the whole spirit of the Bill.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he begged to remind the Lord Advocate that these two boroughs (Govan and Partick) were as completely constituted boroughs as was the city of Glasgow. During the Recess, a deputation of gentlemen from them came to Edinburgh to ask the Lord Advocate not to include them within the boundaries of Glasgow. These gentlemen, being in Edinburgh, asked him if he would receive them in his house, which he did. They came from the Lord Advocate's house to his, and they said there was hardly any difference of opinion in these two boroughs against being attached to Glasgow. It was not enough for this House to inquire what Glasgow wished. They ought to inquire what these two boroughs would like. When this plan might be altogether disapproved of the moment the Select Committee had reported against the extension of English large boroughs, why should they hurry on the people of Glasgow into a union with towns which repudiated it? As for giving them household suffrage,
 979
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that if the districts which it was proposed to unite to Glasgow were not so united, the inhabitants of those districts would not have the franchise. He therefore hoped the Committee would consent to the extension of the boundary, though he was sorry they had not been able to get another Member for Glasgow.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, the proposal was one most arbitrary and most unjust, and was very repugnant to the people whom it affected; and for this plain reason, that the inclusion within the Parliamentary boundary would be the first step towards inclusion within the municipal boundary.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  admitted there was some difference of opinion on this subject among the people in the districts proposed to be united to Glasgow. Some part of the municipal boundary of Glasgow was at present outside the Parliamentary boundary. This was a matter which might be settled by a Boundary Commission. As the town had increased very much since 1832, was it not reasonable that there should be a re-arrangement of boundary now, so as to include districts that ought properly to be deemed to be within the Parliamentary borough?
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, Glasgow having grown to so great an extent, it was not unreasonable that its boundaries should be revised and extended, provided its representation were extended also. He apprehended that its fair proportion of Members, in reference to its population and wealth, would be not less than six. The arguments of the Government would be extremely good then; but as the vast population of Glasgow was represented by an inadequate number of Members, he could not admit that in order to admit an additional number of persons to share in that inadequate representation, a large proportion of them should be deprived of their county vote, which was really valuable to them.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he was perfectly aware that there were portions of Glasgow where the boundaries
 980
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the hon. Member for Lanarkshire (Sir Edward Colebrooke) admitted that there were certain portions of the municipal boundaries of Glasgow that ought to be brought within the Parliamentary boundaries. "With respect to those parts, the inhabitants were all unanimous in wishing to bring them within the Parliamentary limits. Now, this must be settled by the schedule, and Members by allowing the clause to pass in its present shape would not be precluded from discussing what the precise boundaries should be when the schedule was considered, while further time would thus be given for weighing the point which had been raised.
 MR. BOUVERIE  remarked that if his Amendment were carried, it would still be competent for the Government to move a rider extending the boundaries.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had understood from the statement of the Lord Advocate, as well as that of the right hon. Gentleman, the Home Secretary, that the Government were disposed to receive favourably the proposition made from that side of the House. With respect to the large English boroughs, they had had a Commission which reported that the same thing should be done as was now proposed to be done at Glasgow. But that Report, with regard to most of the great boroughs of England, had been entirely unsatisfactory, because the Commission paid no regard to the wishes of the people. When the Report came before that House, the House was compelled to appoint a Committee of the House to re-consider the decisions of the Commission. Of course, they knew not either when the Committee would report, or what they would report. But it was quite clear that, according to the principle the House adopted with regard to the large boroughs of England, it would be very unsatisfactory to accept at once a proposition like that which was shown to be equally unsatisfactory to all those persons within the burgh of Glasgow, and to those who were proposed to be brought
 981
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that what the hon. Member proposed was exactly what he bad said. He should propose that the schedule should be filled up as fines the municipal boundaries, leaving the other question open for consideration.
 MR. CRAUFURD  thought as they had possession of the question they had better settle it at once.
 MR. MONCREIFF  suggested that the Amendment should include both the municipal and Parliamentary boundaries.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he adopted this suggestion.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  proposed a proviso—
 "That at a contested Election for Glasgow no person shall vote for more than two candidates."
 MR. BAXTER  rose to protest against this proceeding on the part of the Government. Clause 6 was postponed with a general understanding that this question should be discussed with the postponed clause, and brought up in due course on Monday night.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the question had been raised by hon. Gentlemen opposite, the whole discussion having turned on the question whether the proposal of the hon. Member (Mr. Graham) should be adopted, or whether the principle of representing minorities should, as the Government proposed, be carried out. It clearly could not be said that the matter had been raised without notice, since the other side of the House had distinctly raised it. He could see no reason for reserving a question which had been decided by so large a majority.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought more time should be given for the consideration of the question.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that although the division of the city into three wards had been negatived, it might be proposed to give two Members to that part of Glasgow on the north side of the Clyde, and one Member to that on the south. It was only fair that time should be given for fully considering the matter.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , rather than delay the progress of the Bill, would consent to defer the question, though, he believed the feeling of the Committee would be as strong upon it on a future stage as it was now.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  stated that the Government were willing to postpone this and the following clauses until it had been decided what course should be taken with the counties.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he was going to propose an Amendment on that clause, of which he had given Notice. He wished to raise the question as to whether the two counties should not be united.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  suggested that the best course to adopt would be to allow his right hon. Friend (The Lord Advocate) to move that the county of Selkirk cease to return one Member, and that the county of Peebles cease also to return one Member, and that the two be united and jointly return one Member, and then any discussion could be taken on the matter.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he was quite willing to accede to the suggestion which had just been made by the Home Secretary.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  then moved, in page 3, line 30, after "burghs," to insert—
 "And Towns of Hawick, Galashiels, and Selkirk, specified in Schedule (B.) hereto annexed, shall be constituted into a District of Burghs, and such District shall return one Member to servo in Parliament."
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, as far as his own feeling went in the matter, he was entirely against the proposed course of action, and he thought that was the general impression of the Scotch Members. If counties were to be doubled up in that way —he did not say that Selkirk and Peebles did not form a very strong case for the application of the principle; but, on the other hand, he said that it was a course which he did not think ought to be followed. If they once adopted that system, there was no knowing where it was to stop. However, he admitted that in the discussion of that Bill it was not desirable to have too many contests; and he should not carry his opposition further than the remarks which he had made, though he could not refrain from expressing the strong opinion which he held against the advisibility of adopting the proposed system.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he was very glad the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Moncreiff) did not propose to carry his opposition further than the remarks which he had just made, and he (Sir James Fergusson) must say that he thought the proposition deserved a more generous reception at his hands. He ventured to think that there was a great principle involved, and that principle was one which ought to commend itself to hon. Members. The towns in their schedule were rising towns — not very large, perhaps, from an English point of view, but still large for Scotland; and in proposing that Selkirk should cease to return one Member, they only proposed its disfranchisement for a special purpose—namely, to unite it with Peebles. He did not think that, under the circumstances, the Committee ought to consider the proposition of the Government anything but a liberal one, and he was surprised that it had been
 984
 MR. LAING  said, he must also express his surprise at the observations that had fallen from the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Moncreiff), and that he should be opposed to this proposition. He (Mr. Laing) thought the Scotch Members ought to look to the opinions of their constituencies. The right hon. and learned Gentleman said that this proposition was against the opinion of the Scotch representatives. Now, he must say that assertion was entirely contrary to the fact; because the opinion of the Scotch Members was strongly in favour of the scheme originally proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), in which several large constituencies would have obtained additional representation. Not being able to carry out that—because they have only succeeded in getting seven, instead of ten Members—the question now comes, whether, by uniting those very small counties in Scotland, which were obviously below the standard of county representation in England and Wales, they could get additional Members to supplement the inadequate representation at present existing in some parts of Scotland. A Conservative Government—he must do them the justice of saying—had made a step in that direction, and they had volunteered and offered what was really a Liberal measure, and then opposition was made by the Law Adviser of the late Liberal Government to any more progress being made in that direction. Of the two counties in question one had a population of 10,444 and the other of 11,408. They would in future be represented by one Member, and that would enable the Committee to give one Member to Perthshire, with a population of 100,000, or to the city of Aberdeen, with a population of 90,000, and which would have 7,000 voters under the new Bill.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE , referring to a statement that no such thing as a union of counties existed in Scotland, reminded the Committee that he represented the counties of Nairn and Elgin. When the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Moncreiff) talked about the Scotch Members having objected to this proposition, he forgot to say that some of the Scotch Members had never heard of some of the meetings which had been held until after they were over.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the assertion of his right hon. and learned Colleague (Mr. Moncreiff), that the Scotch Members were not favourable to this proposal required to be explained a little, because it was apt to convey an erroneous impression. The Motion for uniting those two counties was put upon the Paper by himself a month ago, and at the meetings of the Scotch Members which had been held, he was not aware that any Member objected to it. One hon. Gentleman certainly did ask him if he was going to persist in it, and he said he was. This was all that occurred. On the merits of the question, therefore, he thought that the hon. Baronet (Sir James Fergusson) had a right to appeal to this side of the House. There were towns in that district which had increased in an extraordinary degree; the three burghs would have 25,000 inhabitants, and he did not think there were 25,000 more industrious, active, or energetic people anywhere. Only to-day he had a letter from a gentleman, expressing the pleasure universally felt at the fact that the Government had agreed to the proposition.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, that the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had said that this was not a question of nationality, and that Scotland was only the name of that portion of Her Majesty's dominions north of the river Tweed; and further, that if a place was worthy of representation it ought to have it. In both of those opinions he coincided, and wished them to be applied to England; for it was well known that some of the enfranchised counties of Scotland were not so numerous and wealthy as some in England which had no representation at all.
 MR. AYTOUN  begged simply to say that he was exceedingly surprised to hear the right hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Moncreiff) declare that the Scotch Members as a body agreed with him in feeling a dislike to the system of uniting counties, as proposed. He was in favour of that principle when it could be done without straining, because he desired to adopt any means which would diminish the undue influence of very large land owners, and he was delighted to see any measure proposed or carried which would effect that object. When the right hon. and learned Gentleman makes the remark which he has done, he was bound to tell him that he did not think he had taken
 986
 MR. G. YOUNG  reminded the Committee that the only question before it was that the counties of Peebles and Selkirk should be united, and as that proposal was not opposed it was only a waste of time to continue the present discussion.
 LOUD HENRY SCOTT  said, as representative of one of the counties (Selkirk) that was to be amalgamated, he could state that if his constituents were to make the sacrifice required of them, it could be only upon the understanding that the seat should be disposed of within the district. He could speak as to the energy, industry, and intelligence of the inhabitants of these towns. He had represented in Selkirkshire a manufacturing rather than an agricultural constituency, and he could speak to the importance of the great woollen manufactures in which they were engaged. He thought the Government deserved credit for this proposition, and he hoped the inhabitants of the towns when they got their Member would remember it was due to the Government, and not to hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 MR. CRAUFURD  wished to move the insertion, after the words which had just been adopted, of the words—
 "And the City of Aberdeen shall return two Members to serve in Parliament"
 COLONEL SYKES  seconded the proposition.
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  said, he was surprised that the hon. Member for Ayr (Mr. Craufurd) should have made this proposal to the Committee. The in-
 987
 COLONEL SYKES  congratulated the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government on his recognition of the principle that representation, population, and contribution to the public Revenue ought to bear some relation to one another. The admission of the principle in the present instance established the claims of Aberdeen to an additional Member, remarkable as that city was for its progress, industry, accumulation of wealth, and the intellectual character of the majority of its inhabitants. The question the Committee had to determine was, whether or not they would give the liberated Member to Aberdeen, That city had at present 4,236 electors, and when the Scotch Reform Bill was passed the number would be closely approximate to 9,000. According to the official Returns of the Town Council, it had a population of about 90,000. The trade of the city had received a great impulse. Manufacturing industry was flourishing, and the character of its shipbuilding was known all over the world. The valuation of the city had risen from £193,000 in 1860, to £257,000 in 1867–8, an increase of 23 per cent. Its harbour, which was one of the largest in the Kingdom, of thirty acres in extent, having cost £250,000 would be rendered more convenient to the mercantile world—a Bill having passed through the House enabling the energetic people of Aberdeen to alter the course of the river Dee, and to improve the harbour, at a cost of £238,000, and when completed it would form a harbour of refuge for the east coast of Scotland. These were not small claims upon the consideration of the House and the country. Then the paper manufactories and granite works of Aberdeen should be remembered; and in referring to the latter he felt no remark was necessary on his part to justify their high character, since most great ornamental works in Great Britain testified to the tribute paid to the Aberdeen granite manufactors. Since 1861 the city had built 620
 988
 MR. MILLER  considered that Leith had stronger claims to another Member than Aberdeen; for although the population was not so large, the electors in proportion to the population were more than at Aberdeen; and further, Leith contributed more to the Revenue than any place on the East coast excepting Hull. He had placed an Amendment on the Paper, to the effect that Musselburgh and Portobello be joined to Dalkeith and Lasswade, in forming a group of boroughs to send a Member to the House.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  expressed his surprise that the Government had not recognized the importance of places near the Clyde and erected them into a borough. They were places of the highest importance and if they were not formed into on independent borough they would prefer remaining in the county.
 MR. BAXTER  said, that this country should be treated as a united Empire, as far as England, Scotland, and Ireland were concerned; and where constituencies were found too small for representation, the House should not necessarily look to the immediate neighbourhood. Therefore, in his opinion there was no force in the argument that because Selkirk and Peebles were too small to return one Member each room should be found for the second Memder in a burgh. He represented a larger bistrict than Leith, and his constituents
 989
 MR. LAING  said, the representation of seats in Scotland should not be settled upon mere questions of local jealousies and prejudices, nor yet be the subject of arrangement out of doors between hon. and learned Members on either side of the House. He thought they ought to look at the matter broadly, and do what the public opinion of Scotland expected them to do. They might do themselves infinitely more harm by securing this matter than by acting on intelligible principles; and the principle they contended for was, that the same system of representation which existed south of the Tweed should be extended northward. The claims of Aberdeen were, in his opinion, peculiarly strong. It was not a mere ordinary burgh town, It had been for many centuries the provincial capital of a large and important district of Scotland. It was the centre of intellectual life and education, and as a commercial place, its position was one of great importance. The population was between 80,000 and 90,000. It would have a constituency under the new Reform Bill of between 8,000 and 9,000 electors, belonging to a class than which, in his opinion, none more intelligent or independent could be found anywhere. He ventured to say that the people of Scotland would look upon this settlement as a job. Great
 990
 MR. GRANT DUFF  supported the claim of Aberdeen to increased representation. If that claim were not now allowed the question would speedily have to be reopened.
 MR. PIM  thought Aberdeen was fully entitled to another Member, and if she had been placed south of the Tweed she would have got it long ago. Edinburgh, as the capital of Scotland, deserved a third Member, and Glasgow also ought to have a Member more than she had yet obtained.
 MR. KARSLAKE  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Pim) would point out some places in Ireland from which Members might be transferred to Aberdeen and Edinburgh.
 COLONEL FRENCH  recommended the union of Scotch counties where the constituency numbered only 180 in order to provide additional Members for Edinburgh and Aberdeen.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  thought Scotland should be treated in the fame way as England. Aberdeen had a right to another Member. The throe seats obtained from England and still left undisposed of should be kept in reserve to meet other wants that might arise. He was inclined to deprive some small Irish boroughs of their representation.
 MR. M'LAREN  questioned the correctness of the figures which bad been put before the Committee by the hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes), and stated that according to the Census recently taken by the local authorities, Hawick had 11,000 inhabitants, Galashiels about 10,000, and Selkirk 4,000.
 MR. LAMONT  said, he felt that upon this subject he ought not to return a silent vote. Should the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Craufurd) press his Motion to a division, he should certainly follow him to the Lobby, and whatever might be the result, he hoped
 991
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he was very much satisfied with the discussion raised upon the Amendment which he proposed, and he could not hesitate to say that he felt the force of the arguments put by his hon. Friend the Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes). He perhaps had not raised his Amendment in the manner most advantageous to Aberdeen, and he thought it would not be desirable in a matter of this kind to detain the Committee by a division. But he thought he gathered the feeling of the Committee as being that the claims of Aberdeen to an additional Member were fully sustained and endorsed. His feeling was that it would not be fair to remove the Member who was liberated in the southeast of Scotland as far away as Aberdeen. As there was another Motion about to be made presently, either by his hon. Friend or himself, for liberating another Member, he thought be should consult the interests of Aberdeen better by withdrawing the present Motion.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  then proposed to insert after the words "burghs and towns" the words "Hawick, Galashiels, and Selkirk."
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, the decision of the Committee had been taken as to joining the counties of Peebles and Selkirk, and a further proposal was now made to take out of those counties a very large population. He wanted to know if he was to understand that the Committee were agreed to go back from their previous decision, and content that the remnant of the county of Selkirk should be added to the county of Peebles, for that was what it really amounted to? They had decided that the whole of the county of Peebles and the whole of the county of Selkirk should be added together. Now, it was proposed to take out of the county of Selkirk a population of between 6,000 and 7,000; so that when they were joined together they would only have a joint population of barely 15,000. He did not think that the proposal now before them was one which could be entertained. If it were true that some arrangement had been come to out of the House, that this thing had to be assented to in order to save a similar grouping taking place in another part of Scotland, he should be most unwil-
 992
 Mr. BOUVERIE  asked how the boundaries were to be settled?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that Selkirk was a Royal borough, and that Galashiels and Hawick had boundaries constituted under the General Police Act of Scotland, and they would not be disturbed unless there should be a Boundary Commission.
 MR. LAING  thought that the decision which the Committee had come to with regard to Selkirkshire and Peehlesshire virtually decided the question in respect to Sutherlandshire, for the Committee had decided that the two former counties were not large enough to return a representative each. The county of Sutherland had only 180 electors, and the new constituency would only increase that number by 118, so that Sutherlandshire would only have 300 voters under the new Reform Bill. If two counties which had each constituencies of 700 were not worthy of a single representative each, then a county having only 180 electors, and which under the Reform Bill would not have 300 voters, ought not to continue to send a single Member to Parliament. He always wished to avoid touching upon personal questions; but it seemed to him that there were circumstances which were of much public notoriety, and it would be quite impossible to shut their eyes to them. The county of Sutherland happened, with the exception of one small estate, to belong entirely to one single proprietor. Of course, it was impossible for the people of Scotland or of England, in weighing a question of this sort, to shut their eyes to such a fact. The principle extensively acted upon in England in disfranchising "pocket" boroughs was that, when a borough was clearly under the influence of one individual, it ought not to have one share in the representation possessed by an ordinary constituency. He did not say
 993 994
 LORD RONALD LEVESOX-COWER  said, that he did not mean to take up the time of the Committee with his own personal affairs, but the attack which had been made on his county required refutation. It was not correct to say that there was any difficulty about the communications, which were good throughout the county, and therefore he saw no reason why it should be treated so badly as was proposed by the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing). His own county (Sutherland) had got a population of 25,793, which was larger than the population of two English counties—Rutlandshire and Radnorshire — the former of which had a population of 21,861, and the latter 18,305. He believed the way in which the counties had been attacked lately was owing entirely to the borough interest. He did not think the boroughs had got so much to say for themselves. He had got a list of half a dozen of them, all of which bad a smaller population than that of Sutherland. The Dumfries burghs had a population only of 22,996; the Inverness burghs of 20,380; Kirkcaldy, 23,476; St. Andrews, 16,777; Wigton, 10,385; and Wick only 16,995. Then there were three boroughs in England which were to retain their representatives, and which bad populations under 5,000 —namely, Evesham, with 4,680 inhabitants; Marlborough, with 4,893; and Northallerton, with 4,755. He thought it quite unfair to swamp the landed interest in Scotland, as was evidently the design of those Gentlemen who had brought forward this Motion. It should never be said of him, however, that he was willing —
 "To throw away the dearest thing he owned
Ask were a careless trifle."
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, lie hoped that the Committee, having amalgamated the two counties of Peebles and Selkirk, the joint constituency of which would be over 1,100, would apply the same principle to Sutherland. Whether it should he united with Ross or Caithness was for the decision of the Committee.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that if the Committee had the slightest regard to its own consistency it could not refuse to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for the Wick Burghs (Mr. Laing). The noble Lord the Member for Sutherland (Lord Ronald Leveson-Gower) had been voting with all his might for the disfranchisement of a number of English boroughs, not one of which had not a much larger number of electors than the county which he represented. To unite Sutherlandshire with the constituency of Ross and Cromarty would be a great mistake. These questions must be decided, as those of the English boroughs had been, according to population; and the population of the counties of Ross and Cromarty was larger than that of Caithness and Sutherlandshire together; while the two latter counties were, he believed, under one sheriff, one set of Customs' officers, and one police organization, and were, in fact, virtually united. All they wanted was to Lave a representation in common, and that lie wished would be the decision of the Committee.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought the case against Sutherlandshire was not quite so clear as the hon. Members for Wick and Ayr (Mr. Laing and Mr. Craufurd) seemed to think. There was a large tract of country, consisting chiefly of sheep farms, and thinly populated, but with a considerable population of small householders on the coast. It was all very well to talk of the number of electors, but population had guided the House hitherto; and this enormous tract of country had a population of 25,000, larger than that of the county of Bute or than that of the county of Rutland, which returned two Members, or the proposed united counties of Peebles and Selkirk. He knew it was said the whole tract belonged to one proprietor, who held, as it were, the seat in his pocket, and could return what Member he pleased; and that he argued was not a desirable state of things. But this was an accident which did not exist twenty-five or thirty years ago, and which might not exist that time hence; and Scotch tenant-farmers were capable of
 996
 MAJOR CUMMING-BRUCE  said, he objected to the proposed amalgamation of Sutherlandshire with Ross and Cromarty instead of Caithness, seeing that Caithness and Sutherlandshire were contiguous and connected by railway as well as in local administration; and he objected to the virtual disfranchisement of Sutherlandshire, whose people distinguished themselves in the last war, and who were entitled to all the more consideration because of their distance and separation from the seat of Government. When the right hon. Member for South Lancashire was referred to as having defended small constituencies, he said he did not defend them, but nomination boroughs. This was the case of a nomination county, and therefore the right hon. Gentleman must consistently oppose its absorption in a larger constituency, which it was proposed should embrace not two but three counties—Ross, Cromarty, and Sutherlandshire. Ross and Cromarty had a population of 81,000, which was larger than the united populations of Sutherlandshire and Caithness, and the property Returns also gave Ross and Cromarty a pre-eminence.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he wished to remind the Committee that there were on the Paper twenty pages of Amendments. They were on the eve of the Whitsuntide holydays, and if the Committee did not get through the Bill to-night a new crop of Amendments would turn up, and nobody knew when they would get through the Bill. The only way they could do that would be by the Government propounding, or by there being propounded from some
 997
 MR. DISRAELI : The scheme of the; Government was one framed with a due regard to the interests and the wishes of both sides of the House; and, on the whole, I am of opinion that, under the circumstances, it was calculated fairly and reasonably to satisfy those interests and wishes. I think it of great importance that we should close the Committee, if possible, on this stage of the Bill to-night. We know well, from our experience of last year, that on such a subject as the re-distribution
 998
 MR. GLADSTONE : I need hardly say that there is no understanding between me and the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government other than that which may have been arrived at across this table; but I am bound to say that I think the language of the right hon. Gentleman on the present occasion is the language of good sense. The question of opening up the representation of the county of Sutherland is nothing but the first of a long list of questions, and if you concede to the plausible motives which have been urged and adopt this Motion you will bitterly repent it before you come to the end of your labours. My hon. Friend the Member for the county of Inverness (Mr. H. Baillie) said that if the Committee has any regard to consistency it must adopt this Motion. Now, I dispute the proposi-
 999 bonâ fide 1000 1001
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, it appeared to him that a Reform Bill, whether for England or Scotland, must necessarily be a thing of surprises. At the commencement of the evening he was very much surprised to hear his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Moncreiff) protesting against the creation of a popular constituency in the South of Scotland. The right hon. Member made that protest in a few faltering sentences, and his speech then came to an end with a suddenness very unusual with his right hon. and eloquent Friend. Later in the debate lie found the two counties of Selkirk and Peebles, with an electorate of over 1,000 and a population of 22,000, joined together without the Committee going to a division on the subject. Soon afterwards, he was surprised to find his right hon. Friend at the head of Her Majesty's Government, which proposed this extinction of one county constituency, defending from a similar fate another county constituency, with an electorate of only 180. He was yet more astonished, however, to hear the right hon.
 1002
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE , in reference to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, begged to say he had yet to learn that an
 1003 "Hos ego versiculos feci, tulit alter honores."
 LORD ELCHO  observed, that some hon. Gentlemen seemed to suppose that with reference to the proposition now before the Committee, there had been an understanding between the two front Benches. Whether that were so or not, the duty of independent Members was to take what appeared to them to be the right course in the matter. As a rule, he did not think it was a judicious proceeding to disregard time-honoured divisions of the country; for by so doing they would drive men who did not wish to see the whole country governed by the towns to adopt the principle of electornl districts. It appeared, however, that the system of joining counties had been established in 1832, and it had been again acted on in an early period of this evening. If the principle of grouping was sound in the case of Peebleshire and Selkirkshire, it was equally sound with regard to Sutherlandshire and Rossshire and Cromartyshire. He was opposed to any such junction; but if this were determined on, he would rather see Sutherland joined to Caithnessshire. In former times very intimate relations had existed between these two counties. There was still an old leaf-
 1004
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  was understood to protest against the counties of Selkirk and Peebles being spoken of in a depreciating manner.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that at the time of the Union six counties were joined in pairs; and in 1832 six were dealt with in the same way, only that under the junction arrangement made at the time of the Union each of the two counties joined together returned a Member to Parliament alternately; while by the Reform Act of 1832 the counties then united in pairs always returned one Member jointly for each pair. It was ridiculous to talk of the great importance of Sutherland when the number of sheep and deer there as compared with the number of men was mainly what was taken into consideration.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  rose to propose an Amendment, the object of which, he said, like that which had just been negatived, was to show that to a certain extent Scotland was able to help herself. The district of burghs which he proposed to disfranchise contained a number of electors very little larger than that of some of the English pocket-boroughs which were about to be disfranchised for the benefit of Scotland. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone) had argued that population was the proper test; but he maintained that the number of electors was the proper criterion, since it involved property as well as numbers. The Wigton district consisted of four towns, if they could be dignified by that name, or rather of one town, Stranraer, with 6,500 inhabitants, and three villages—namely, New Galloway, with 450 inhabitants; Whithorn, with 1,623; and Wigton, with 2,100. The number of electors was less than 500, while in Northallerton, which was to be disfranchised, it was upwards of 450. Now, what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the
 1005 "That from and after the present Parliament the Wigton district of Burghs shall no longer return a Member to serve in Parliament; the Burghs of Stranraer and Wigton shall be added and form part of the Dumfries district of Burghs; and the City of Edinburgh shall return a third Member."
 THE CHAIRMAN  expressed an opinion that the Amendment should have been proposed on Clause 10, which created or extinguished constituencies, whereas the present clause only added certain towns to existing districts of burghs.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  remarked that part of his Amendment added towns to an existing district.
 MR. M'LARBN  supported the Amendment.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said: Sir, rise to entreat the Committee nut to be led away by the arguments of my right hon. Friend the Member for Invernessshire (Mr. Baillie) and I trust that my right hon. Friend the First Minister will give this proposal his most strenuous opposition. It may, no doubt, be argued that the Wigton burghs are the smallest burgh constituency in Scotland, but the Committee has just refused to sanction the partial disfranchisement of Sutherland—a county whose constituency is not half that of the Wigton burghs. Stranraer, the principal town of the group, is a most rising seaport, and has increased and is increasing most rapidly both in wealth and population. The burgh of Wigton is also rapidly improving. I live near Stranraer, and am able to speak on this subject with the greatest impartiality. I do not agree in political views with my hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Wigton burghs (Mr. Young), but I feel bound to do all in my power to resist this disfranchisement. These towns sent representatives to the Scotch Parliament, and since the Union have had a separate Imperial political existence. Though the present feeling in this district is to support the party opposite, it is unfair to say that this will always continue, or that it is brought about by undue influence. Indeed, not many years since, a Conservative candidate polled within one of the Whig who was returned. These burghs have a separate interest, and, owing to their geo-
 1006
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  proposed to emit the clause, on the ground that it would divide Lanarkshire, with its 200,000 inhabitants, in an unequal find objectionable manner, leaving one division with a population of only 20,000, another with one of 60,000, and a third with a population of 120,000.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he was surprised to hear such an objection coming from the hon. Member for Lanarkshire. The object of the clause was to divide the county so as to have the mercantile and manufacturing interest represented in that House as well as the agricultural interest. It was somewhat extraordinary to find an hon. Member opposing the representation of a district in which his property was situate, lie trusted that the hon. Baronet, on consideration, would not persevere with his Amendment.
 MR. MONCREIFF  thought that the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. B. Cochrane) was open to the charge of inconsistency ill the course he had just advocated in respect to Lanarkshire and that which he bad supported when the question of the representation of Glasgow was under consideration. It appeared to him that the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Lanarkshire (Sir Edward Colebrooke) was a reasonable one. The uniform practice was that two Members should sit for each county without having any division.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that this was the first opportunity which had arisen of discussing the question how two Members should be allotted to one county. In England divisions of counties were represented by two Members; but in the present case the county was seventy miles in length and fifteen miles broad, and it would be a great convenience to have a division. The proposal to divide Aberdeen-shire met with approval, and the proposal
 1007
 MR. LOCKE  observed that there appeared to be a great difficulty amongst the Scotch Members as to the mode in which they should divide the spoil. Seven Members, to be taken from England, were to be appropriated to Scotland, but there did not seem to be any inhabitants to receive them. He understood the proposition was to divide the county, and give a Member to a certain number of agricultural individuals. He should support the proposition of the hon. Member for Lanarkshire (Sir Edward Colebrooke), as he objected to leave one Member to be returned for a division in which there appeared to be no constituency at all.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, as the learned Lord Advocate had referred to a private communication which he had had with him in his office when the right hon. and learned Gentleman invited him to inspect the plan of the boundaries to be proposed, he (Sir Edward Colebrooke) thought it only fair to refer to what had really passed on that occasion. No doubt on that occasion he had expressed a strong suspicion that an unfair division would take place; but the right hon. and learned Gentleman did not when he went to him propose any distinct plan, but named several propositions which he had under his attention. The impression left was that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had not made up his mind, and he (Sir Edward Colebrooke) said that if a fair and equal division were proposed the right hon. and learned Gentleman would stand upon strong ground. In his opinion, however, this had not been done, and no division of the county could be made which would separate the commercial from the agricultural population.
 MR. FORDYCE  thought that so far as Aberdeenshire was concerned, the division proposed by the Government was most fair and equitable, and he hoped the proposal would be persevered in. He had presented two petitions from Aberdeen in favour of it, one largely and influentially signed, and another from the Committee of Supply of
 1008
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, he had never heard a word of weight against the Government's proposed division.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he believed strong local feeling existed in favour of having the two Members for the undivided county.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSON  said, his experience as a Member for the county differed from that of the hon. Member (Mr. Craufurd). He knew from personal experience the difficulty attending a canvass of the county, and remarked incidentally that it was of not the slightest importance to any party how the matter was decided.
 MR. CRAUFURD  proposed the omission of certain words, with a view to prevent joint occupiers below £50 in counties, with certain exceptions, from exercising the franchise.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was surprised that any objection should be taken to this clause, which was precisely similar in its terms to the 27th Section of the English Act. He did not see why a distinction should be drawn between the two countries.
 MR. ELLICE  proposed the insertion, in line 9, page 5, after "joint tenants," of the words "or joint owners," so as to provide that only two joint tenants or two joint owners should have a vote for the same property.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  intimated his willingness to accept this Amendment.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, He hoped the hon. Member would withdraw his Motion, They were now getting on very well, and he trusted some further progress would be made with regard to the Bill.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that he had an important clause to propose, and he thought it would be better to report Progress. ["No, no!"] The hon. Member then moved after "burgh" to insert—
 "And all the expenses for or connected with such polling booths or rooms, including therein the fees for clerks and poll sheriffs employed by the Returning Officer within the same, shall, in burghs, be defrayed in the same manner as the registration expenses incurred under the Acts of nineteenth and twentieth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter fifty-eight; and in counties shall be defrayed in the same manner as the registration expenses incurred under the Act of the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth years of Her present Majesty, chapter eighty-three, are now defrayed."
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that a similar proposal had been made in the English Bill, and had been rejected.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  urged that the clause should be postponed for the purpose of being amended.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it could be amended on the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. MONCREIFF  suggested the postponement of the clause, as there was a great desire on the part of both sides of the House that the dissolution should take place, if possible, before the 1st of November. ["No, no!"]
 MR. BOUVERIE  asked if they were to discuss this clause at one o'clock in the morning?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there were some other postponed clauses to be considered; for instance, the clause relating to the seven seats to be given to Scotland; and he supposed they would like to get those seven seats.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought it would be discourteous, after the assistance they had received, to oppose the Motion,
 MR. BOUVERIE : How long will the money last?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would have any objection to lay on the table a He turn explanatory of the latter part of the Question?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, By whom the present House keepers and Office keepers at the War Office, Office of the Commander in Chief, and Quartermaster General, were respectively appointed; the salaries they respectively receive, and the positions they respectively held in the Public Service, or otherwise, previous to their appointment; and the number of Boys, Labourers, Servants, Doorkeepers, Messengers, Temporary Clerks, Clerks or other salaried persons in the Offices of the Secretary of State for War, the Commander in Chief, the Adjutant General, the Quartermaster General, the Topographical Department, Her Majesty's Stores, Pimlico, Her Majesty's Stores, Tower, and she number of persons in these Offices respectively who have sewed at any time in Her Majesty's Army?
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether any reply has been returned by the Charity Commissioners to the Memorials addressed to them by the inhabitants of Edmonton in the matter of "Latymer's Charity" at that place; and, whether he can state the course which the Commissioners intend taking with respect to the said charity?
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What steps he proposes to take with regard to the Memorial addressed to him by the Vicar, Churchwardens, Medical Practitioners, and other Inhabitants of Barking, complaining of the state of the River Thames as dangerous to navigation and to the health of the inhabitants of Barking, and of all the towns below London, and praying him to instruct the Attorney General to apply to the Court of Chancery for an injunction against the Metropolitan Board of Works to restrain them from discharging the sewage of London into the River Thames?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU , in reply, said, the Commissioners had thought it expedient to withhold their reply to the memorials addressed to them in the matter of "Latymer's Charity, at Edmonton," until the re-settlement most proper to be made of its endowments should, after full consideration of all its circumstances, be definitively determined upon. That determination had been made, and the scheme having been formally perfected, would be promulgated in the parish within the next few days.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied that the Government had determined to give effect to the wishes of the congregational bodies or of other religious bodies by means of a general Bill on the sub-
 953
 MR. DISRAELI : Clearly, that is the intention of the Government.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I must remind the hon. Gentleman that the Instruction which was carried by the House only empowered the Committee to disfranchise ten boroughs. Now, I do not propose to avail myself of that Instruction, except to the extent of seven seats, to increase the representation of Scotland. We intend to adhere strictly to the programme which I introduced the other night to the attention of the Committee with regard to the representation of Scotland, and therefore I do not propose to deal at all with the other three boroughs. The boroughs which we propose to disfranchise will be taken according to population, that being the rule hitherto observed in those arrangements.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : We only took a Vote on Account for six weeks on the last occasion, and it is necessary to take one now. The money we now ask for will last until the middle of July.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What has prevented the promised early introduction of the Turnpike Continuance Bill, and when that Bill will be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he was not prepared to admit that anything had prevented the early introduction of the Bill, because his hon. Friend had given Notice of his intention to bring it in to-morrow night, and that would be very early indeed. With respect to the course of proceeding, it would be this: —A very large number of cases would be included in the Schedule of the Bill for 1869, and he proposed to give Notice that a Select Committee be appointed early next Session, so that the parties concerned might have an opportunity of laying before it any representations they had to make.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that the Act of Parliament under which the sewage was discharged into the River Thames had received great consideration. The memorial to which his noble Friend had referred had only reached the Home Office within the last two or three days, and he had referred it immediately to the proper quarter. Up to the present he had got no answer, and therefore he was not prepared to say what steps would be taken.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that the increase in the metropolitan police was determined on long before the inquiry instituted at the Home Office took place, and therefore had no relation to it. With regard to the expenditure to be incurred under the Bill, an Estimate had been laid on the table, and would, he hoped, he satisfactory, If the hon. Member for Middlesex would give Notice of his Question, he would make inquiry whether there would be any difficulty on the subject mentioned by him.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that if the hon. Member would move for a Return on that subject it would not be opposed.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  asked the House to go into Committee of Supply to pass a Vote on Account. He made the proposal on the supposition that it would be impossible to take all the Votes before the 1st of July, when several half-yearly payments were to be made.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the table of the House a Return of the number of Causes standing for hearing before the House of Lords at the commencement of the pre sent Session of Parliament, and of the number already heard during the present Session; with the number of days on which the Lords have sat for hearing Appeals, and the number of hours occupied on each day of sitting, and the names of the Lords who sat on each day?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would also beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman, Whether he will state the mode in which
 954
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, before moving the Second Reading of the "Metropolitan Police Funds Bill," whereby the local Taxation of the Metropolis for Police purposes is sought to be augmented, he will lay before the House Copy of the Evidence token by, and the Report of the Home Office Committee on, the Metropolitan Police; and, whether he will also, before the Second Reading of the Bill, produce an Estimate of the increased expenditure to be incurred thereunder?
 MR. MURPHY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to take any further steps with regard to the proposed Catholic University for Ireland?
 MR. BAINES  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord, Whether he is aware that the Congregational Board of Education have decided to alter its Trust Deed in reliance on the assurances received from the Committee of Council; and that that Board, with its Training College and affiliated Schools, would be subject to great inconvenience if those assurances should not be fulfilled?
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  said, he would bog to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has any information of a proposed renewal of Russian hostilities against Bokhara; and, if so, whether he can state the aim and object of such hostilities?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the Question embraced such a great variety of names that he should have been disposed to ask his noble Friend to move for a Return if it had not been that as regards the second portion of the Question, by far the larger number of persona there referred to would be found in the Army Estimates; and if his noble Friend would lock to page 84 of those Estimates he would find them there. He would therefore mention those who were not to be found in the Army Estimates. The housekeeper in the War Office had been appointed by Lord do Grey at a salary of £100 a year, being only one half of the salary of her predecessor, and she was the wife of one of the War Office, messengers, the office keeper had been appointed by the late Duke of Newcastle, at a salary of £250 a year. He was formerly a Queen's Messenger for Home Service attached to the Colonial Office. The office keeper in the Commander-in-Chief's Office was appointed by His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, at a salary of £130. He was formerly a messenger in the same Office, and had previously to that been quartermaster-sergeant in the Grenadier Guards the house keeper had also been appointed by His Royal Highness at a salary of £84. The office-keeper in the Quartermaster General's Office had been appointed by the Quartermaster General at a salary of £100 a year. He had been fourteen years a messenger in that office, and bad pre-
 951
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied that he had no objection to do so?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, it was not true that the studded shot system hitherto adopted with heavy rifled ordnance had been, or was about to be, abandoned. With regard to a proposal made by a gentleman named Murphy for a new plan of rifling heavy ordnance, no trial of it had yet been made by the Ordnance Select Committee. That Committee, how-
 952
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I am sorry to say I have as yet no intelligence upon the subject. There is a mail at present due from Constantinople, and I daresay I shall receive information in a day or two.
 MR. OTWAY  said, be wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works a Question of which he had given private Notice. When Parliament re-assembled after the
 1043
 MR. GLADSTONE : I wish, Sir, to ask a Question with respect to the Established Church (Ireland) Bill, which stands for Committee on Friday next. I apprehend there may be many Members of this House who would not feel themselves obliged to return to London next week except for this Bill. I understood the Government to say they should not feel it to be their duty to attempt any Amendment of the Bill in Committee. I think it might be a convenience to the House if the right hon. Gentleman is in a condition to state what course the Government will take at that particular stage of the Bill?
 SIR HENRY WINSTON-BARRON  said, he wished to ask a Question about some Returns which had been ordered some time since and had not been produced, although they would require very little preparation. He hoped they would be forthcoming before the re-assembling of Parliament after Whitsuntide?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he had not hitherto uttered one word about the "clinging to Office "which was said to characterize the Government; but, on the other hand, he had seen nothing of the "writhing" process which the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) had described as going on upon the Treasury Benches. He was not surprised that the noble Lord should have taken advantage even of this opportunity of expressing his sympathy with her Majesty's Government. But on this occasion it seemed to be wasted. He (Mr. Otway) thought that Ministers retained their seats with astonishing calmness and composure, although there had been a Ministerial crisis about once a fortnight. The fact was that the question of the gravest importance just now was not what party should be in Office; the credit of the House itself was at stake. Of late the House of Commons had fallen into great discredit throughout the country. Scenes had occurred there which had rarely been witnessed before; and those who presided over the affairs of the country had shown such an indifference to public opinion and to constitutional usage as had never been shown by any Government of recent days. Now, he did not believe that the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown would say anything on this matter which he thought would bring discredit upon the House of Commons. But as the right hon. Gentleman had said it was his earnest wish to dissolve as soon as possible, and the Solicitor General added that means might be taken for facilitating a General Election, it was desirable, that the House should know whether the right hon. Gentleman would
 1065
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, there are two brandies of this subject. One of them relates to the Bills as to which my right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) has inquired whether, in case they are contested, the Government would go forward with them or not, and on that matter the answer of the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown is a perfectly just and fair answer. He says that in his opinion all Business ought to be dropped except the measures necessary as a supplement to the Reform Act, unless there be some very special cases indeed. I think the right hon. Gentleman has specified in a very fair manner all the measures essentially supplementary to the Reform Bill. I presume him to mean the Irish Bill, the Scotch Bill, and the Boundary Bill. I think the House entirely sympathizes with the right hon. Gentleman in his strong desire to dispose, if possible, of the Corrupt Practices Bill. But, with regard to the Foreign Cattle Market Bill and the Electric Telegraph Bill, we are not precisely cognizant as yet of the special reasons which make the Government desirous of carrying them forward at this moment. As to the Foreign Cattle Market Bill, I confess I am very sceptical, if not extremely jealous, of the policy it involves; but I will not give any opinion upon it now. But, with regard to the other branch of the question, I cannot speak with quite so much satisfaction. And here I greatly regret that, after my hon. Friend (Mr. W. E. Forster) introduced the subject in a tone which could give offence to none, and which involved no matter of controversy, my noble Friend the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), in that indulgence if not of his sympathies, at all events of his antipathies, found it necessary to trouble, perplex, and embroil the question by the introduction of very invidious, not to say offensive topics. Now, Sir, I must very frankly make this protest in the face of the noble Lord. The noble Lord says he is anxious for the credit of the House. It is not for the credit of the House that this matter, with respect to
 1069 bonâ fide 1070 1071 1072
 MR. COG AN  said, they had at last got an avowal as to the cause why the postponement of the dissolution was thought to be desirable, namely—that they might have an opportunity of getting up a cry. He thought it greatly to be deprecated that an attempt should be made by any political party to get up a religious cry. Nothing would be more disastrous to the interests of the country than to inflame the passions of the people on the ground of religion. He believed no cry was likely to do such permanent injury to the country, or to inflict more indelible mischief and disgrace on those engaged in getting it up. Whether or not it would be successful he could not say; but they had already seen the peace of this country broken by religious riots in the North of England, and he believed a most serious responsibility would rest on any Minister, however, eminent his fame and talent might be, who lent the sanction of his high authority to raising a religious cry, whether that of "No Popery," or "No Protestantism." There had been other ominous signs and indications, though of a minor nature, as to the course of proceedings intended to be taken. A Notice of Motion given by a Member of that House had been distorted and misrepresented in a way which, during his experience of Parliament, which now extended over sixteen years, he had never seen equalled. He alluded to the manner in which the Notice given by the hon. Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) for the insertion of clauses in the Oaths Bill had been vilified and misrepresented in doubleleaded columns in an organ of the party opposite, and to the extraordinary interpretation put upon it by the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire a short time back.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to know whether the two Bills having reference to the Government of India would be proceeded with?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Well, I do not mean to complain of the hon. Gentleman's censures or observations whichever he meant. What I wish to say is this, that it appears to me that reference to debates in the House of Lords is, as a general rule, very improper and inexpedient; but cases may occur in which it would not only not be improper and inexpedient, but in which it would enter into the obligations of Members of Parliament to do so. I can say for myself that I have been extremely rigid in abstaining from all references to the House of Lords in any matter of general controversy. I think I may say that during my public life, extending now over thirty-six years, I do not remember to have referred to anything said in the House of Lords except on two occasions, and both of these were in the present year. They were cases which did not refer to myself, but they were cases where the position of the House of Commons was involved. It appears to me that in cases where a Member of the House of Commons thinks, whether rightly or wrongly, that a declaration made by a Minister in the House of Lords is material to the position of the House of Commons, it is, I do not say his duty to refer to that declaration as having been made in the House of Lords, but it is his duty to get at that declaration in any manner he can, and make it part of the subject-matter of discussion in this House. So again, if a Member thinks, whether rightly or wrongly, but in good faith, that remarks have been made in the House of Lords disparaging to this House, he would be fulfilling his duty, rather than doing a thing calling for any apology, in referring to them. I do not conceive that any reference ought to be made to the House of Lords except in those two cases; but I must', add that I have heard many speeches in the House of Lords which consisted simply
 1080
 MR. GLADSTONE : I understood the hon. Gentleman—though what has fallen from him is not very clear—to cast some censure upon me for having made allusion to debates in the House of Lords.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, a large portion of the expense for which the Vote was
 1104
 COLONEL SYKES  said, this increase was only a drop in the ocean of the entire Vote, and the total cost of our law was about £3,000,000, while the charge in France was only £1,334,221.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  thought it right to say that, so far as the Government were concerned, they had done everything they could to reduce the expenditure of last year.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, a portion of their expenses would be borne by the county prisons, and the charge for those who were sent to Mountjoy Prison would come under the head of the convict service. The legal expenses would come under this Vote.
 COLONEL SYKES  asked why the number of convicts who were to be provided for was not given in the Estimates each year? It was now the practice to give the number of troops and seamen in the Army and Navy Estimates.
 SIR HENRY EDWARDS  said, the abuse of Roman Catholics by the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) had been going on  ad nauseam;
 LORD ELCHO  said, he was very glad that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had justified the House from the aspersions cast upon them by the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Greene), because the hon. Member would have led the country, and the miners in particular, to imagine that there was an indifference felt in that House to protect the lives and interests of the working population of this country, of whom the miners were as good specimens as could be found; while from his own knowledge there had been an earnest desire to endeavour to legislate practically upon it in order that the lives of Her Majesty's subjects might be preserved. He thought the Motion of the hon. Member was unnecessary. What was wanted was practical legislation, and not further inquiry; and this was confirmed by Mr. M'Donnell, the President of the Miners' Union, who, indeed, had stated that if the Act already passed were put into force, protection could be given to the miners. There were ample powers under the Mines Inspection Act, if properly and judiciously exercised, to establish a healthy state of ventilation in mines, if the Secretary of State for the Home Department would only put them in operation. There was also power to fence off places suspected to contain explosive gases; but to use these powers effectively it was necessary
 1084
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, last evening when the Scotch Reform Bill was under discussion the late Lord Advocate said it was the unanimous wish of the House that the dissolution should be hurried forward. I expressed my dissent by a "No," which found a response on both sides of the House. Now I think this is a question which affects other persons in this House besides the right hon. Gentlemen who sit upon the front Benches. It affects the convenience of private Members, and the interests of the public, though I perceive it is too much regarded simply as a question between right hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House and right hon. Gentlemen on the other. On this side of the House you have right hon. Gentleman who, no doubt, suppose it is not in the interest of the country that a Government in a minority should continue in Office. On the other hand, we have Gentlemen on that side of the House who have thought it their duty to carry on the Government with a minority. I should remind the House, however, that although the Government were in a large minority on the Irish Church question, yet they were in a majority on the great constitutional question which has occupied so much of our time. Last year, when the English Reform Bill was under discussion, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) did all he could to carry certain propositions which would have turned out the Government, but he failed to do so. Last night we had the Scotch Reform Bill under discussion, and again the right hon. Gentleman spoke against the proposition of the Government, and his party to a certain extent supported him; but what was the result? Why, the propositions of the Government were carried. On this great constitutional question, therefore, the Government has been able to command a majority. Is there, then, any important public reason which would justify the forcing of our whole system of registration, and the torturing of the machinery of registration, in order that two mouths, or perhaps one month earlier, a vote may be taken in this House as to which right hon. Gentleman is to be at the head of affairs? I maintain that there is no public reason which justifies or demands that such a
 1059 The Times 1060 "Sir,—May I be permitted to ask" [not on behalf of the right hon. Members on the other side, but] "on behalf of the world outside the House of Commons, what urgent necessity there is for hastening the business of registration and the dissolution of Parliament? "If the new constituencies are to be properly tested, the register must be rightly formed. Every official has a new and excessively ill-drawn Act to understand and to work; every Revising Barrister has to dispose of a fresh statute, bristling with points of doubt which will all have to be argued out, and to reconcile, if he can, anomalies betwixt the new and the old Acts, which will puzzle all concerned." "It the General Election is to be anything but a scramble, in which nobody will be allowed time to discover the colours under which he would march, it should not be before January at the earliest."
 LORD ELCHO : I am ready to read the whole, but I do not wish to trouble the House. I had marked that passage to read—
 "The only faction that can gain by precipitating the business of revision is that which would be weakest if the new statute were duly carried out, and that is certainly not the Liberal party." 1061 and
 MR. COWPER  said, he felt some sympathy with the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Baillie Cochrane)—who was known in that House for the interest which he took in matters of taste—in his desire for the erection of a fine building on the banks of the Thames, and he admitted that on purely aesthetic grounds there was much to be said on behalf of that site. He could not, however, admit that it was preferable to the present one in point of convenience and economy. It was obviously undesirable that the Courts should be bounded by two noisy thoroughfares; and the present site, while having the Strand on the one side, would have on the other streets which, though wide, would not be thoroughfares, except for persons attending the Courts. The slope, moreover, so far from being a disadvantage, would be a great advantage; for it would furnish a considerable amount of space for records on the lower side, while the ground floor would be at a proper height to prevent inconvenience from the traffic. The site, too, was just in the centre of the legal quarter, equi-distant from Lincoln's Inn, the Temple, and Gray's Inn, so that one object of a concentration of the Law Courts would be accomplished, and the convenience of the gentlemen of the long robe would be consulted. On the other band, a site on the Embankment would cost at least twice as much; for the houses in Norfolk and Arundel Streets, and all the streets which would have to be pulled down, were of a more valuable description than those which had been purchased for the Carey Street site, the cost of which, moreover, had not exceeded the original estimate. If 1,000 feet instead of 700 feet were required, the extra space could be obtained at less expense on the present than on the proposed site; but he did not believe that such an enlargement was necessary. Many architects, indeed, had fancied that the present site was insufficient; but this question depended on the amount of accommo-
 1050
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he rose to Order. The House a few minutes ago was engaged in the discussion of a most important subject—namely, coal mines, and the safety of those engaged in them. That subject was not yet disposed of; but the hon. Member for Peterborough had risen, and introduced something upon an entirely different matter, which had nothing whatever to do with mines. It would, therefore, be well to know whether he was in Order or not.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had expressed a hope that the Government would not hastily decide on the site of the New Courts of Law. But the Government had no decision to make in the matter. This question had been decided years ago by both Houses of Parliament—not hastily, nor by one decision, but after consulting the highest authorities, and by repeated Acts of Parliament, extending over a series of years. Ten years ago a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into this very question of site. That Commission reported in favour of the present site. Parliament sanctioned the purchase, which was now vir-
 1052 1053
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, he could only repeat the Answer he had given privately to the hon. Member, which was that the Government had nothing whatever to do with the management and control of the streets of the metropolis. The cost of the maintenance and repair of them was not defrayed out of moneys voted by Parliament, but out of rates levied upon ratepayers by local authorities. It was clear, therefore, that the management and control of the streets must be vested in the representatives of the ratepayers, who had to pay for the maintenance of them. Those representatives were the local authorities, and they, and not any Department of the Government were responsible for the state of the streets.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the hon. Member had misunderstood his relations with the House if he imagined that there was the other evening the least indisposition on the part of the House to entertain this question. The fact was the hon. Member brought it forward at a most inopportune moment. He received an intimation to that effect from the House; and there was a feeling that he did not do justice to the gravity of the subject; for the hon. Member introduced it as a new one, as if he had suddenly discovered that something ought to be done, while, in fact, the House had thirty years ago, and upon many occasions since, devoted much attention to it, and Parliament had passed an Act to prevent accidents in coal mines. Since the passing of the Act the House had appointed a Committee to make inquiries into the subject, and that Committee, which was presided over by his hon. Friend the Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate), had sat during three Sessions, and had received a considerable amount of scientific evidence from persons practically acquainted with the working of mines. After the conclusion of the inquiry his hon. Friend prepared an elaborate Report, which was presented to the House at the close of last Session At the beginning of this Session his hon. Friend asked him (Mr. Ayrton) what course he should take, and his answer was that the Government ought to be allowed a certain time to carry out the recommendations in the Report; and that if they failed to do their duty then it would be his duty to bring the Report under the consideration of the House, and to urge the Government to do something upon it. Whilst that point was under consideration they were surprised to find that the hon. Member had placed a Motion on the Paper for the appointment of a Royal Commission. Now, if that Notice meant anything it could only have a tendency to disparage the labours of that Committee, and to re-open the whole inquiry. [Mr. GREENE: Hear, hear!] If that was the object of the hon. Member he would put it to the House whether he had done any useful service to the mining population of the country? The result had been that the hon. Member, from his want of knowledge, perhaps, had himself practically obstructed the progress of the question more than anyone. [Mr. GREENE: No!] But he did do so. He had illustrated the
 1083
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to call attention to the site of the New Law Courts. That site was accepted by the House at a time when the embankment of the Thames had scarcely been commenced, and when it was impossibly for the House to have decided fairly upon so important a point. There was an opportunity now, however, of carrying out a most magnificent design, and of carrying it out without additional expense and with the greatest advantage to the public. Three conditions should be satisfied in the choice of a site for such a building: there must be space, light, and air. Another point should be remembered—that things beautiful in themselves became more beautiful still by juxta-position. Thus, a woodland scene, and a venerable abbey, each beautiful in itself, had new charms when placed side by side. Apply this principle here. Nothing could well be finer as a building Bite in European capitals than the banks of the Thames. There was nothing like it in Europe, except the Neva and the Tagus. Well, place the Law Courts on the river side, and their architectural effect would be greatly enhanced. The three conditions requisite in public buildings were space, light, and air. The site on the Thames Embankment combined these requisites. At present it was proposed to build the Law Courts on a site which would give a frontage of 700 feet and a depth of 550 feet. Now, the  Quarterly Review 1046 1047 "The greatest statesmen and philosophers have ever considered the cultivation of art, and the building and adornment of cities, as of primary political importance. Plato attributes the origin of legislation to the cultivation of the arts. Public buildings are the most lasting and effective ornaments of the country, and at the same time the cheapest the people can obtain."
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, he would endeavour to get them issued during the holidays.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, nut to be misunderstood, I may say that my opinion of this Bill remains the same. I think it is a bad Bill and badly drawn; but I do not think it incumbent on us to attempt to
 1044
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I really am unable to see so far ahead as the 19th of June, At the same time I snail he very sorry to interfere with the discussion indicated by the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, in reply, that he was sorry he could not fix a day at present, but would do so on the first day after the holidays.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he hoped the House would always support that Rule; because he thought it prevented controversies and recriminations between the two Houses, while it had a tendency to promote mutual courtesy and softened the manners of a popular assembly, which required some restriction of that kind. He trusted, therefore, that the House would not sanction the criticism of the hon. Member nor the object to which it would lead. As to any observation which might seem to impugn the impartiality of Mr. Speaker, he could only say, speaking for those who sat on that (the Ministerial) side, that there existed only one feeling—that Mr. Speaker exercised his functions with an impartial discrimination towards both sides of the House.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, with reference to the inquiry of the right him. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) as to the conduct of Business, I thought I had before expressed the views of the Government upon that subject. Our opinion is that we should confine our labours, generally speaking, to that which is necessary; and I should describe as "necessary" only the supplementary Reform Bills and the Estimates. With regard to the Bribery and Corruption Bill, I myself should relinquish it with a pang. It is, in my opinion, most desirable, if not absolutely under the circumstances, indispensable; and if, after proceeding with the supplementary Reform Bills, and the Public Business which is absolutely necessary, we have time also to carry the Bribery and Corruption Bill, there will be no lack of effort on the part of the Government to do so. Then, with regard to other measures. We have allowed some of them, such as the Bankruptcy Bill, to drop. There are, however, two measures, which have been especially alluded to by the
 1066 1067 1068
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would make inquiry of his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for India as to the Bills, and take an early opportunity of stating the intentions of the Government.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the charge for bedding and clothing varied according to the stock in hand and the requirements of the establishments.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that these salaries had been brought under the notice of the Treasury last year, and were revised and increased, some of them on the recommendation of the hon. Gentleman himself.
 MR. ADDERLEY , in reply, said, the noble Duke the Colonial Secretary received Mr. Wall's letter dated Colombo, March 5, in a Despatch, dated March 21, on April 27, and a further letter from Mr. Wail, dated April 17, complaining of the first having been published in a local newspaper. On inquiry it appeared that this publication was without the authority, consent, or even knowledge of the Governor, but much to his annoyance, as unfair to himself. But the substance of the letter, and of one of the League Committee of the same date, was sent by Mr. Wall himself to a local newspaper before even the transmission of the documents from the island. The Governor, however, had been requested to ascertain, if possible, whether the letter appearing in a local newspaper supporting the Government had been effected by any Government officer or by any breach of official duty. An answer had not yet been received.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not think blame ought to be attached to the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Greene) for having brought this question again under the consideration of the House. On the last occasion when the subject was before them a count out took place; and
 1085
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. and learned Baronet had been very anxious to disclaim any intention of interfering with the Act of Settlement; but the mutt admit
 1102 1103
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, On what day after the Recess it is his intention to proceed with the Committee on the Election Petitions and Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I do not presume to censure the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to call attention to Rule 164 of "The Rules, Orders, and Forms of Proceedings of the House of Commons"—namely, "No Member may allude to any Debate in the Other House of Parliament," and to it; frequent infraction or evasion, and to move that it be rescinded. These Rules were often treated like a net which was strong enough to stop the little fishes, but which the great fishes broke through whenever it so pleased them. Now he could not understand the use of Rules that were not to be uniform in their operation. All Members of that House were presumed to be on a footing of perfect equality. They recognized no social rank as giving any preponderance in the estimation of the House; a noble Lord had no greater weight than his talents and character might give him in their debates, and no advantage over another person who was a Commoner. A Minister was no more than a Member. He was, therefore, not ready to give one Member impunity in infringing this law; an impunity not extended to others, simply because he had occupied the position of a Minister in this House. He had noticed that when anything had occurred in the other House of Parliament, which excited interest in this House, hon. Members who had been in office previously, and who expected to be in Office again, were habitually accustomed to disregard the Rule in question, and to refer to debates in the other House of Parliament, and even to give the speakers' names, repeating the  ipsissima verba 1078 pro formâ
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would ask Mr. Speaker, as a Question of Order, whether he could not enforce these Rules, and whether he would not enforce Rule 164 against any private Member; and also whether it was not a fact that Rule 160 had that very evening been enforced in the case of a private Member?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  disclaimed
 1081
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had heard with very great pleasure the statement just made by the Secretary of State for the Home Department. When the First Minister of the Crown made his statement on the 4th of May, he asked him whether he had spoken after consultation with the Law Officers of the Crown? He understood the right hon. Gentleman to give him an assurance, and he had since remained in the hope that he would do so, and would then make a more definite statement to the House. He had never taken any step to press the right hon. Gentleman, though he had certainly expected to hear something more definite. It appeared to him that the statement now made by the Secretary of State was satisfactory, and he had no doubt that after the Recess the House would receive some definite proposal from the Government on the subject.
 MR. GREENE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, The intention of the Government on the Committee on Coal Mines? With respect to accidents in coal mines he was satisfied, from conversations which he had had with the owners of these mines, that the number of them might be greatly reduced, and he thought the House ought to give its calm and dispassionate consideration to that important subject. He desired to impress upon the House that the inspectors did not visit the mines in such a manner as to be of any practical use in the prevention of accidents. He thought that much good might be effected by the appointment of educated and practical men to act under the present inspectors of mines. He knew it was a disputed question whether by the appointment of official inspectors the responsibility of the owners of mines might not be weakened; but he was himself convinced that active and competent officers, carrying out an efficient system of inspecting mines from time to time, would do much practical good in preventing these most deplorable casualties. They had had a Report presented to that House from a Committee appointed to inquire into this subject, but no action whatever had been taken upon that Report. He regretted that a question which involved the lives and health and comfort of so large a class of the industrial population should attract so little interest in the House. He had been asked why he took up the question, and his reply was that he might be regarded as impartial on the question, because he had no interest in coal mines and did not represent a coal country. His own opinion was that any inquiry into this subject should be entrusted to a Commission composed of eminent scientific men. They all knew that in time of battle a man valued his life at very little; but that in time of peace he valued it greatly. If he should be a Member of the Reformed Parliament he would endeavour to attract its attention to this subject, and he would not leave it till he had seen a fair and honest attempt made to grapple with it. He would just say that he did not wish to in-
 1082
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he very much regretted that the discussion had not been continued in the tone in which it had been introduced by the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster). The question raised by the hon. Member was a very simple one. With respect to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone), that the Government were going back from something they had stated before, he entirely repudiated any such insinuation. He asked the House whether it would be possible to introduce a Registration Bill, or to adopt means to facilitate the registration, until they knew what the boundaries of the boroughs were to be, and until the matters were settled which were to be the basis of the registration? When his right hon. Friend made his statement, he expected that the question of the Boundary Bill would have advanced much more rapidly. The House, however, although it was the Commission of their own appointing, had
 1076
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I trust the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Greene) will forgive me if for a time I am carried away from the subject he brought so ably before the House by the very numerous charges which the hon. Member who has just sat down brought against myself and various other persons. The hon. Member has concluded without moving for a Committee of Inquiry; but he brought under the notice of the House a very extraordinary collection of accusations. He first accused me of having stated in this House, on the occasion of a Question addressed to me a few nights ago, what certainly I never did state. Then he accused various authorities throughout the country of conniving at illegality; he charged a stipendiary magistrate with not doing his duty; and he concluded by extending this latter charge to the Court of Queen's Bench. [Mr. WHALLEY: No !] As I understood it, this Committee was to inquire into a decision of the Court of Queen's Bench; which, of course, is not a question for a Committee or for this House, but one for a higher tribunal.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The hon. Member said that the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench had caused—I think a
 1093 1094 mandamus 1095 1096
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I practically answered this Question the other night. It is not the intention of the Government to institute any inquiry at present, whilst trials are pending; and with respect to the latter part of the Question, I may say it seems to me that the matter is one that rests entirely with the local authorities.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that Dartmoor stood upon an entirely different footing from Chatham.
 MR. GOSCHEN : Which party would gain by it? Bead the latter part of the letter.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that there was this year a diminution in the charge for Gibraltar of £10,000.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the
 1108
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the attention of the Government had been directed to that office, which it had been hoped would prove self-supporting, but which had undoubtedly been a failure. The subject was now undergoing inquiry, the result of which would shortly be laid before the House.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had not intended to thrust his Motion before the House; but be was under the impression that the former question had been disposed of. He ventured to express his earnest belief that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Hume Department had, by the casual Answer which he gave to his Question, struck a blow at liberty of speech in this country. What was the position of matters after the Answer which had been made by the Home Secretary. When the local authorities thought that a breach of the peace was about to be committed, they might, in total disregard of liberty of speech, interpose and prevent the delivery of these lectures. Now, it was the fact that Mr. Murphy, one of the lecturers, whose lectures had been disturbed by rioting, only did that which for a considerable time had been done by the opposite party. Dr. Manning had perambulated the country giving lectures, in which he denounced Her Majesty as a heretic, and in which he turned English history altogether topsy-turvy; and monks and friars in full canonicals had gone about from place to place, and had visited the borough with which he was connected, delivering similar lectures. Mr. Murphy was engaged merely to reply to such lectures, and he assumed that he and his colleagues had done nothing to disentitle them to the protection of the law. They were engaged in carrying out what they firmly believed to be
 1087 "When we have arranged for a lecture, the priests go to the magistrates, who induce the owners of the halls we have engaged to break the contract made with us after it has been signed, the money paid, and the object and character of our lectures fully explained. I have been before the magistrates at Blackburn, Warrington, and Rochdale, and asked them to protect me, and they would give me no answer, though the request was made in the most civil and courteous manner. Our opponents are thereby led to believe that we and our supporters are outlaws, as it were, and eonsequently they make murderous assaults upon
 1088 1089 1090 1091 1092 The Confessional Unmasked
 MR. WHALLEY  asked the cost incurred in consequence of the Fenian prisoners?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, but for the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) the Votes would have been much higher this year.
 MR. WHALLEY  detailed the amounts paid to Roman Catholic chaplains in prisons, and asked upon what principle those salaries were fixed, because only 4 per cent of the prisoners asked for the ministration of Catholic priests?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he did not think that any arguments could be advanced on public grounds in favour of an early dissolution. Hon. Members were well entitled to a quiet holiday when they left Westminster; besides which, the period between the dissolution and January was short enough for the country to form an opinion upon the great question of Popery and Protestantism on which the new Parliament would probably be elected.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government, to institute any inquiry as to the origin and nature of the recent riots at Ashton and other places in the county of Lancaster, and at Birmingham and other places in the counties of Warwick and Stafford; and whether the Government has made any and what provision for the better protection of public lecturers and those who may attend such lectures in the event of threats to suppress such lectures by riot and outrage, and then prevent the recurrence of such riots as before referred to?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to Order. The hon. Gentleman charged him with having shrunk from an inquiry, whereas, as he had already explained, he had relied on the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire) to second his Motion.
 MR. WHALLEY : What I stated was that the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench with respect to a recent Act of Parliament was a proper subject for inquiry, in order that this House should consider whether that Act ought to be continued.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he was personally connected with mines as an owner, and he was convinced that, though the appointment of inspectors might have had a good effect here and there, still, on the whole, it was not equal to the supervision on the part of the owners of mines and persons interested in them which it had superseded. A good medium course was now open to the Government—to bring to the aid of the paid inspectors the opinions of those personally interested in the mines.
 MR. WHALLEY  proceeded to call at-attention to the recent Roman Catholic riots at Ashton, Rochdale, Stalybridge, Bury, and other places in the county of Lancaster, and at Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Stone, Hanley, and other places in the counties of Warwick and Stafford; and to move for a Committee to inquire and report to the House as to the origin and nature of such riots, and what, if any, measures are requisite to secure to persons engaged in the delivery of lectures or speeches on the subject of Protestantism, and to the public, better protection He must, he said, in the first place, express his surprise at the Answer which the Secretary of State for the Home Department returned to him at an earlier period of the evening. The right hon. Gentleman generally met every difficulty in a straightforward and manly manner, and did not, as a rule, seek to make excuses, more or less frivolous, in order to avoid responsibility. To-night, however, he had adopted a course very different to
 1086
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, in order to secure an adequate discussion on the subject of University Education in Ireland, he will promise that there shall not be a Morning Sitting on Friday, the 19tb of
 1042
 MR. PAULL  said, he was glad that reference had been made to the shame and disgust which prevailed out of doors with regard to the language which had been used in the House during the last few weeks, and which had recently called forth a cutting rebuke from the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne). Only last night an hon. Member gave the he direct, and was obliged to retract, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) had just de-
 1073 1074
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had advised caution in respect to the Act of last year. There was an increase of nearly £2,000 apart from the special reasons assigned.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the number of convicts in Government prisons had most materially diminished, having fallen from 9,000 to 7,000, and therefore there was a considerable want of prisoners for carrying on the public works at Chatham and Portsmouth. The result was that those public works would cost the country £500,000 more than was anticipated in consequence of the short supply of convicts-. It would be, of course, in other respects an advantage to the country if there were a decrease in the number of convicts; but he wished to ask why the Government were now proposing to take an additional Vote for conveying convicts to Gibraltar, as the convict establishment at Gibraltar had been universally condemned by every Department and was quite useless.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the whole question of the Gibraltar establishment was gone into by a Committee three or four years ago, and it was certain that the employment of convicts there was unremunerative, while their employment at home was highly remunerative. Gibraltar did not relieve the country permanently of any convicts, as they were all returned to this country. It was only an expensive penal establishment at home.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that whether a prisoner was sent to Gibraltar or kept at
 1107
 MR. CLAY  said, he had never accused right hon. Gentlemen opposite of undue tenacity to Office. On the contrary, he was of opinion that the course they had taken was the right one. Although it might be doubted whether any Prime Minister ever had a right to a dissolution before leaving Office, he believed that, if ever a Prime Minister had that right, it was the right hon. Gentleman opposite, not on the ground on which he himself had put it, that the present Parliament was not elected under his auspices, or those of his predecessor; but because his Government had passed one of the most remarkable and important Acts in the history of this country, and he had every right to ask whether the country gave him credit for it or did not. He had his own opinion as to the answer that would be given, and thought the country would rather give the credit to the Liberal side of the House; right hon. and hon. Gentleman opposite had as good a right to their opinion; and it certainly was a question which they were entitled to put to the country. That feeling was very general on the Liberal
 1062 1063
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he had never risen in that House with more reluctance than upon this occasion, and he felt extreme regret at being forced to join in a discussion which was so unworthy in its tone; and, indeed, if he was not unwilling to use language which might not be of a Parliamentary character, he would describe the manner, and the remarks of the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) in much stronger words. What was the course taken by the hon. Gentleman after scattering broad-cast around him, for upwards of an hour, observations and charges which were not only unjustifiable, but wholly unfounded. After demanding apparently with earnestness an inquiry into those charges which he had the temerity to make, he had shrunk from moving his Resolution for the appointment of a Committee, under the pretence of which only he could have attempted to occupy the attention of the House.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he had no other desire than to state accurately what had taken place. He doubtless did so in warm language, as he felt that such proceedings should be put a stop to. The hon. Member had taken the liberty of using his name
 1097 Hansard, 1098
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If any information has been received from Her Britannic Majesty's Ambassador at Constantinople announcing the release of Mr. J. W. Stevens, a British subject, who has been captured by Brigands near Smyrna; and if the restoration of Mr. Stevens cannot be obtained without the payment of the money demanded by his captors, application will be made to the Ottoman Government to pay the required ransom?
 MR. CANDLISH  asked for an explanation of a certain increase of salaries which appeared in the Vote?
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that the charge for salaries at Chatham increased, while for salaries at Dartmoor, a similar establishment, it did not. He moved the reduction of the Vote by £400.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member gave Notice of a Motion relating to this Declaration. I think he cannot enter at
 1100
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he had not thought it right to stop the hon. Member for North Warwickshire in replying to the speech made by the hon. and learned Member for Clare; but the hon. and learned Member had gone too far in the observations he had made, and the House ought not to be led now into further discussion.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member for Peterborough was out of Order. He was not explaining, but repeating a statement which he had previously made.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Question now before the House is, "That I do leave the Chair," in order to the House going into Committee of Supply. That being so, I have not any power to prevent the hon. Gentleman from pursuing his observations.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member refers to a past debate, which he is not at liberty to do.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member says that he desires to put this Motion  pro formâ
 MR. SPEAKER : Certainly, if any hon. Member infringed Rule 164, which, as I said, is an account of the practice of Parliament, I should feel it my duty to put that Rule in force; and I trust that I should do so with impartiality in the case of any hon. Member who transgresses it, But the matter can be very easily arranged. If
 1079
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, If the Board will institute an inquiry into the loss of the steamer  Garonne
 MR. FLOYER  said, in the Report of the Directors of Convict Prisons it was staled that there had been a decrease of charge for convicts during the last three or four years; but this year that decrease appeared to have come to an end. Indeed, there was an increase this year of £25,000. The estimated number of convicts for whom the proposed Vote was to be taken for the year 1868–9, was, according to the tabular statement and given in the Estimates, 7,750, ns against 7,470 for the year 1867–8, showing an increase of 280 convict prisoners. He hoped they would receive an explanation on that point from the Secretary to the Treasury; for it was a grave matter for the country if the improvement which had been in progress for some years past had now, without any special cause that he was aware of, ceased,
 1106
 MR. LOCKE  said, with reference to the Gibraltar establishment, it was most important that they should have the opportunity of Bending criminals out of the country. Prisoners thought transportation a much more severe sentence than penal servitude at home with the prospect of a ticket-of-leave before long.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he desired to express his concurrence in the recommendation of the hon. Gentleman. We had laid out a large sum of money, and obtained what he (Mr. M. Chambers) thought at the time would be the most eligible site for the New Law Courts. But since that expenditure and the partial clearing of the ground it had become known that it would be next to impossible to accomplish the original grand scheme. They had had the mortification of seeing that some of our ablest architects had failed in producing even one design adapted for the purposes in view. There were, however, reasons which, might account for that failure. In the first place, the site was perfectly inadequate and unfit for its object. It was upon a steep descent, or ascent, and of a very irregular shape. In the next place, there would be the greatest difficulty in getting access to the edifice if erected. He had been informed by a gentleman of great experience that it would cost half as much as had been already expended to make proper approaches. Then, with regard to the nature and situation of the plot of land, he did not know whether any Gentleman in that House had ever walked in that unfashionable neighbourhood; but if so, they must have discovered that the houses to the west were the dirtiest and worst that could possibly be
 1048 1049
 MR. WALPOLE  brought up the Report of the Select Committee. There were several corrections which required to ha made in it before it could be circulated; but such instructions had been given that he hoped the Report would be in the hands of Members by Monday morning. In the meantime he was authorized and instructed by the Committee to communicate to the House the results of their labours, which, he hoped, would be satisfactory to the House. There were three classes of cases into which the boroughs as dealt with by the Committee might be divided—cases in which the Report of the Commission had been recommended for adoption; cases in which the Select Committee recommended that modifications should be made in the Report of the Commissioners; and cases in which the Committee recommended that the present boundaries should be retained. The first class, in which it was recommended that the Report of the Commissioners should be adopted, included the cases of Bolton, Chester, Greenwich, Newport (Monmouthshire), Northampton, Preston, Stalybridge, and Windsor. The cases in which the Committee recommended that the Report of the Commissioners should be modified were those of Chelsea, Cheltenham, Darlington, Gloucester, Hastings, Midddlesborough, Newport (Isle of Wight), Oldham, Salisbury, and Wilton. It was recommended that the present boundaries should be retained in the cases of Birkenhead, Birmingham, Bristol, Gateshead, Lambeth, Liverpool, Marylebone, Manchester, Not-
 1045
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, after it has been admitted that this Parliament would have been dissolved were it not for exceptional circumstances, it appears to me that we are not in a position to deal with contested measures, or measures of public importance about which there may he great difference of opinion. The supplemental measures of Reform relating to Scotland and Ireland—which may be considered to form part of the original question of Reform—should alone be the measures dealt with by this Parliament. I have doubts whether the Bill with regard to Corrupt Practices at Elections ought to be decided by this Parliament, because it is proposed by it to transfer the jurisdiction over contested elections to Judges out of the House. And we can never get that jurisdiction back if we part with it, without the consent of the other House. Therefore, a question of that importance should not be disposed of by the present Parliament. There is also the Telegraph Bill, involving questions of importance that will lead to long discussions. There is also the measure relating to the Importation of Foreign Cattle. That will lead to discussion. I think that all these measures had better be deferred to a new Parliament, rather than that we should take upon ourselves the responsibility of deciding upon them. This may be considered a dead Parliament, and we ought not to attempt to settle these great questions in it. I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, whether he will give us some assurance that the business of the Session will be limited to the subjects to which I have referred?
 MR. COGAN  said, he would not pursue the topic further. He thought it a serious matter that these religious questions should be stirred in this manner, and the public passions inflamed. The sooner the issue was taken the better for the country. He sincerely believed that the condition of Ireland was was one of very serious import, and if not soon remedied might be a cause of permanent disaster to the interests of the Empire. There was a lull at this moment in the dangers of Fenianism; but he trusted the House and the country would not be led into false security by the peril appearing to have passed away for the moment, and that the hopes excited by the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, and affirmed by a majority of the House, might not be indefinitely postponed. Nothing could be more injurious to the prosperity of the Empire, or to the interests of Ireland, than that the faith of the country in the wisdom of Parliament should be shaken, and that the public should be led to think they had no redress for the evils that oppressed that portion of the Empire. He believed in the justice of the English people, and was happy to think that the efforts to create discoid had to a great extent failed. He looked forward with confidence to the public supporting that policy which was directed to the maintenance of union and harmony between both branches of the Empire, and which would ultimately, he trusted, attain a prosperous issue.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, If he can inform the House what steps he in tends to take in reference to the contemplated measure for expediting the dissolution of Parliament on the new constituency in the autumn? He believed that both sides of the House would be agreed that it was desirable that as little uncertainty as possible should prevail in reference to that important subject; and, before they separated for a short holiday, he wished to remind the House of what he considered to be the condition in which they stood with respect to it. The right hon. Gentleman at the Head of the Government had brought the matter before them in a Ministerial statement about three weeks ago. The right hon. Gentleman then told them that Her Majesty, acting on his advice, had announced her readiness to dissolve Parliament as soon as the state of Public Business would permit; and, he added, that by that he meant the autumn of this year, when, he believed, an appeal could be made to the new constituencies. The right hon. Gentleman informed them that the
 1054 Vict. 1055 1056
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  asked how this Vote had increased £9,000?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  asked why, if convict labour was so remunerative, convicts were liberated before their term of servitude had expired?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he thought the office ought to be self-supporting.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, it was not his intention to proceed with his Motion.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would not discuss the matter at any length, but in moving for the copy of the Declaration he did not think he was out of Order in alluding to the Motion for which he wanted it. The object of his Motion was simply to get rid of the particular Declaration, a copy of which he now moved for, and which was established in this kingdom in the reign of Charles II., at a time when Protestant feeling was strongly aroused in consequence of the excitement connected with the Popish plot. The Declaration which was required to be taken by all persons holding office was framed expressly for the purpose of excluding persons who, though nominally Protestants, were not relied upon as such; and hence the Declaration was one of a most offensive character. He would not read the whole of it, but would merely give the substance. [The hon. and learned Baronet read passages from the Declaration denouncing the belief in the doctrine of Transubstantiation, the adoration of the Virgin Mary, and the sacrifice of the Mass.] The Declaration was framed in the most offensive and insulting manner to Catholics. It was a relic of that temple of intolerance which had been reared by our ancestors long ago. From the time he first entered the House he had endeavoured to erase that offensive Declaration from the statute book, and on his introducing a Bill for that purpose the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole), with the feelings of a Gentleman and a Christian, stated, on behalf of the Conservative party, that he should offer no objection to the removal of this Declaration. The Bill passed through the House of Commons, but, as they were all aware, it was not the custom in "another place" to pass a Bill of the kind the first time it was sent up to them; and accordingly the application was repeated in 1867, when he was happy to say that it became the law of the land, and now every person under the Crown was relieved from the necessity of taking that Declaration. It was formerly required to be taken by the clergy in Ireland; but a Royal Commission appointed in 1865, unanimously declared that it ought to be abolished even as to the clergy. The Report of the Oaths Commission described the Declaration as "painful and irritating in its nature," and
 1101
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  rose to reply, but—
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he rose to move "That there be laid before this House, a Copy of the Declaration against Trausubstantiation, &c, taken by the Sovereign of this Realm at his first Parliament, or at his Coronation, whichever shall first happen after his Accession." In doing so, he wished to make a brief explanation with reference to a Notice of Motion which he had placed upon the Paper, and which had been very much misrepresented both in that House and out-of-doors. That Notice of Motion had received a good deal of publicity in consequence of the kindness of some association, which was acting in the interests of Her Majesty's Government. It had moreover been misrepresented by the Press, and the
 1099
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, At what time the noble Duke the Chief Secretary for the Colonies received an official letter fully addressed to his Grace by Mr. George Wall, the President of the Planters' Association of Ceylon, find dated Colombo, March 5, 1868, which letter was entrusted by Mr. Wall to the hands of the Governor of Ceylon, Sir Hercules Robinson, to forward, in accordance with the usual etiquette; if he is aware of the fact that such letter so entrusted to the hands of the Governor was tampered with, and was published in a local paper called the  Ceylon Herald
 MR. GOLDNEY  reminded the Committee that this was one of the offices he had before referred to, which ought to be
 1105
 MR. GOLDNEY  pointed out that a great number of items of expenditure connected with the management of the convict establishments, and especially the pay of the officials, showed an increase over the previous year.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, it was evident that considerable delay would occur before the plans of the New Courts were settled, because the Commission of Judicature proposed great alteration in the system of the Courts of Law, and it would be absurd to build a Palace until they knew what Courts were wanted, and what Parliament would do upon the Report of that Commission. He thought it would be a great advantage to have the Law Courts built upon the Thames Embankment; because there they would be accessible both by land and water, and would not be surrounded by old and low streets and lanes like those which surrounded the selected site. Then as to the question of ornament and beauty the Thames Embankment was, in his opinion, far preferable to the present site. Having bought a site it might be said that it was necessary to make use of it; but if they had not, after all, got a good site, it was better
 1051
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that on the Report he should be able to give more complete information upon the point; but from general information he could state that about 200 convicts were sent to Gibraltar about two months ago, in consequence of the demand from those in charge of the works there for additional labour. As long as Gibraltar was continued, it would be necessary that the works should go on there; but as transportation had ceased, there was now no other drain upon the supply of convict labour.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the rules respecting the remission of sentences were exceedingly rigid, and the present system of penal servitude was anything but inviting to convicts. Tickets-of-leave were granted upon very strict conditions; those who received them being placed under strict surveillance by the police, and being sent back to prison for the remainder of their term on the smallest infraction of the rules. The system of shortening the period of imprisonments by marks given for good conduct had had a most beneficial effect upon the convicts in insuring their good behaviour during their imprisonment, and there was no fear now of a convict getting released before a fixed period of his sentence had expired.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he could fully confirm what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Bradford as to the possibility of having an election in the middle of October, and he thought that only very slight alterations would be required in our electoral machinery for the purpose of accomplishing that end; but the real question to be determined was whether the House were really desirous to have a sitting in November? He went so far with his hon. Friend as this—that he should be very glad, in common he was sure with most hon. Members, to have the opportunity of eating his Christmas dinner in peace, find unless there was to be an election during the present year, that desirable object could not be attained. According to the present law Parliament could not be dissolved until after the 31st of December, and consequently there could be no elections till the beginning of January; but without going as far as his hon. Friend proposed, and without even attempting to alter any part of our electoral machinery, he wished to point out that we might have an election in December, so that the new House might meet either in the early part, or the middle of January. Thus the unpleasantness of canvassing during Christmas would be got rid of. He would briefly indicate how this might be accomplished. Under the present law the lists must he handed over by the Revising Barristers to the clerks of the peace on the 31st of October, and the clerks of the peace were allowed two months from that time to prepare the lists, by putting them into alphabetical order, and causing them to be printed. But prior to the Act of last year the clerks of the peace were only allowed one month to prepare the lists, and were obliged to have them ready on the 30th of November. Now, if a return were made as to what was the law on this subject previous to last year the elections might easily occur in the middle of December, and the House might then meet not less than thirty-five days afterwards, or some time in the middle of January. That would be one way of getting over the inconvenience and unpleasantness of a long canvass during the winter months. He did not, however, say that the object of his hon. Friend could not be accomplished; for he thought there might be an autumnal meeting of the House in November, if the House desired it. That object might be attained, either in the way just sketched out by his hon. Friend, or in the way sug-
 1058
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, he wished to remind the House of the position in which they stood with regard to the Corrupt Practices Bill. In 1860 his hon. Friend Mr. Bentinck, who was then Member for West Norfolk, proposed as an Instruction on going into Committee upon Lord John Russell's Reform Bill that the Committee should have power to deal with the question of bribery and corruption. Lord Palmerston, with his usual good sense, assented to that view, and the Instruction was adopted. In 1866 he (Sir Rainald Knightley) made a similar Motion. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) thought proper to object to it; but the
 1064
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : Sir, The Board of Trade have already sent instructions to the Solicitor of the Customs to take steps for an immediate inquiry into the circumstances attending the unhappy loss of this vessel.
 MR. BAZLEY  thanked the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department for his very judicious and temperate reply to the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley). He regretted that he had no influence with the hon. Member. If he had he would have used it for the purpose of inducing the hon. Member to withdraw his sanction from these proceedings which, in the manufacturing districts, were endangering the lives of Her Majesty's subjects, and imperilling a great amount of property. It was but an act of justice to state that when himself a large employer of labour many of his workpeople were Irish, and that they showed the same fidelity as others, while with regard to the care for the labouring class shown by the ministers of all denominations, the Roman Catholic clergy were a" devoted as any. He feared that serious disasters would ensue unless measures were taken for the preservation of order and for the suppression of exciting topics.
 MR. GLADSTONE , who rose amid cries of "Order," said: I only wish to give notice to my hon. Friend opposite that I think his Question calls for comment from me. But as I do not wish to interrupt the Business of the House, I will take an opportunity of making such comment on
 1111
 MR. GLADSTONE : I will trespass for a few minutes upon the courtesy of the House. I wish to comment upon the Question put by my hon. Friend opposite (Sir Thomas Bateson) to the First Lord of the; Treasury. My hon. Friend asked the First Lord of the Treasury whether his attention had been drawn to a letter purporting to be; written by me on the 26th of May, with reference to the East Worcestershire Election, which my hon. Friend says had a considerable effect upon the result of the election. Sir, that is a very great compliment to me; and if he is really correct in his supposition, which I am not vain enough to credit, I receive the statement with satisfaction. He has called the attention of the Head of the Government to that I letter. Now, I wish to call the attention of my hon. Friend to the letter; because it seems to me that he has not attended to it, nor does he cite its purport accurately. I will not defend the style of the letter against the criticisms of the right hon. Gentleman, which are, perhaps, fair enough under the circumstances; but I own the authorship, and I abide by the assertions. I do not intend to recede from any portion of them. The mistake into which my hon. Friend has fallen is this—He says it is stated in my letter—
 "That Her Majesty's Government proposed during the present Session to endow the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, and also to create a Roman Catholic University, paying its expenses out of the taxes of the country."
 MR. GLADSTONE : If I had stated that, it would have been an over-statement, because Her Majesty's Government did not propose to endow the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland during the present Session; nor, indeed did they make any proposal upon the subject; and I rather think I carefully refrained from saying that they had made any such proposal. I confined my assertion to the plans they submitted on the subject of the Roman Catholic
 1113 "This Government proclaimed ten weeks ago that they were friendly to religious equality in Ireland, provided it was brought about by endowing the other Churches, including the Roman, in Ireland, and not by disendowing the Protestant Church: and by way of earnest they proposed at once to create a Roman Catholic University, and pay its expenses out of the taxes of the country; whereas we take away the Establishment, which now exists, and make no more, in Ireland." 1114 Regium Donum 1115 1116 "The following letter was read in the Presbyterian General Assembly at Belfast yesterday:— '10, Downing Street, Whitehall, 'March 19, 1807. 'Sir,—I am directed by Lord Derby to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 10th inst. on the subject of an increase of the  Regium Domum. 'J. WILSON.'" Regium Donum 1117
 MR. GLADSTONE : Here is the letter. Will the right hon. Gentleman look at it?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Then shall I rend the words again? They are these—
 "Now, this Government proclaimed ten weeks ago that they were friendly to religious equality in Ireland, provided it was brought about by endowing the other Churches, including the Roman, in Ireland, and not by disendowing the Protestant Church; and by way of earnest they proposed at once to create a Roman Catholic University and pay its expenses out of the taxes of the country."
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I desire to say only a few words, for I thought that the explanation which I gave the other night was clear, frank, and explicit. The whole gist of my observations was this—that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government, with regard to ecclesiastical arrangements in Ireland, to endeavour to maintain the policy which this House and this country has adopted towards Ireland in that respect for a great number of years. I stated that I believed that any changes that were indicated were indicated only in this spirit—namely, that the ecclesiastical arrangements of Ireland had been for a great number of years sanctioned by Parliament on a distinct line of policy, and that it was our intention to endeavour to maintain, and, if possible, to advance it. That was all I said, and all I intended to say. With regard to the University, distinctly said that it was not the intention of the Government to propose an endowment for the Colleges connected with it. I stated that if Parliament sanctioned the establishment of the University, I thought they would be prepared to provide for the small expenses—which could not possibly exceed more than a few hundreds a year—for the remuneration of the few professors who would be necessary. One of the principal objections taken to the scheme by the Roman Catholic prelates was that no provision was made for a sufficient endowment; and therefore it is clear that they, at all events, thought our proposal on that point unsatisfactory. I must remind the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) that in his proposal for granting a charter of incorporation to a Roman Catholic Col-
 1122
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I said that it was the intention of the late Government
 1123
 MR. TORRENS  inquired as to the course of proceeding on Monday?
 COLONEL SYKES  rose to call attention to the sums paid by the Treasury as bounties for the capture of Slaves, and for their support, &c., after capture, yearly from 1863 to 1867, inclusive, and Estimate for 1868–9; also, the amount paid for the support of the Mixed Slave Commission in the West Indies. In 1863 the tonnage bounties, & c, paid amounted to £44,454; in 1864, to £45,592; in 1865, to £16,955; in 1860, to£4,857; in 1867, to £24,738: the number of slaves captured in those years being in 1863, 1,395; in 1864, 6; in 1865, 0; in 1866, 3; in 1867, 0; in 1868, 0. The sums paid for support and conveyance of captured negroes in those years were—1863, £26,059; 1864, £26,528; 1865, £23,787; 1866, £36,280; 1867, £4,840; and the Estimate for the present year was £28,656. The cost of the Mixed Slave Commission was in 1863, £10,650; in 1864. £10,950; in 1865, £7,550; in 1866, £10,650; in 1807, £10,450; and this year it was estimated at £9,450. The tonnage bounties, therefore, for the five years 1863 to 1867, amounted to £136,596, and the expense for the conveyance and support of slaves for those years to £117,494. The Mixed Slave Commission, in the West Indies, cost £50,250, add to these sums the pay of the squadron for those five years on the West Coast of Africa, £366,590, and we have the formidable sum of £670,930, for the capture of 1,404 slaves on the West Coast of Africa, or at the rate of nearly £478 per head, and this was independent of the pay of ships on the East Coast of Africa; the number of slaves captured on that coast not being stated in the Returns,
 1131
 COLONEL SYKES  remarked that the Reports of Admiral FitzRoy had proved of great interest and utility; and, no doubt, the labours of the Committee of the Royal Society would be equally so. His chief objection to the present system was that the experiments were conducted by a body of gentlemen who were not responsible to either that House or to the Board of Trade. There was a body of Fellows of the Royal Society who received, as a Committee, £10,000 per annum of the public money for the conducting of meteorological research experiments. He did not insinuate fur a moment that any misapplication had occurred, or would occur; but he objected to the total absence of responsibility. As regarded the Geographical Society, he should regrett hat any objection should be taken to that grant, the advantage to the public resulting from it being obvious.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that Dr. Petrie at his death had expressed a wish
 1134
 MR. BRUCE : These are all Church schools?
 LORD HENLEY  said, he was glad to; hoar that it was proposed to give additional aid to schools, more especially as he had feared at first, in consequence of the alteration in the Vote, that an actual decrease in the amount of aid was contemplated. He understood the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) to say that it was intended to apply something like £75,000 for the purpose of increasing the efficiency of our schools, and that the diminutions which had been referred to were owing to the circumstances of the Bill which Government brought forward early in the Session having been dropped. For his own part, he did not much regret the abandonment of that measure, which, however, had the merit of avoiding two things that were highly objectionable—namely, raising the money for the promotion of education by a local rate on real property, and the forcing of education on the agricultural classes. The general taxpayer was quite as much interested, if not more so, in the education of the children of the poor as were the landowners, the farmers, or the owners of houses in towns. Even one practically acquainted with the working of education in rural parishes must acknowledge this. In his own neighbourhood he had noticed that the cleverest and best educated boys almost always left their native village in order to push their fortunes in the metropolis and it must be obvious that the merchants and capitalists who employed these lads gained as much, if not more, by their education than those who paid the rate. It was only fair, therefore, that the general taxpayer should contribute something towards defraying the expense of education. The plan of supplementing voluntary efforts by public aid was, no doubt, an excellent one; but the great defect of the system was, that in some isolated parishes where subscriptions could not be raised the children of the poor were left without education at all. To those parishes where assistance was moat required no single farthing of the money voted in that House was given. This case was one of a class which presented great difficulty to those who desired the spread of education; and he understood that hon. Gentleman below him proposed to get over the difficulty by dividing the country into rateable districts something like Poor Law unions, and levying a rate upon those districts. He did not like the idea of an enforced rate, but he saw no objection to forming the districts, and giving the man-
 1142 1143 employés
 MR. BRUCE  said, the greater part of his noble Friend (Lord Henley's) speech had been devoted to two points which were not then before the Committee—namely, an education rate and compulsory attendance at school. His noble Friend had expressed a strong opinion against both; but he (Mr. Bruce) believed it was not the intention of the Government to adopt either. He would not then enter on a discussion of those points; but he believed there was no country in the world where a good system of education prevailed that did not depend upon local rating and local effort. No country in the world besides our own had attempted so utterly wild and impracticable a project as the education of the children of the nation by means of Imperial funds. Would the hon. Members for Scotland give up their system of rating in order to draw their educational supplies from the Imperial funds? ["No!"] There
 1144 sine qua non 1145 s s s d s d s 1146 1147
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he was not surprised that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bruce) who was strongly imbued with official ideas, should not have relished the remarks of the noble Lord the Member for Northampton (Lord Henley), which, however, he believed would meet with a cordial response throughout the country. The Privy Council treated school managers as if they were supplicants for alms, rather than what they were, persons who made considerable sacrifices for the cause of education. He quite agreed with those who thought that the compulsory system would be a most dangerous one to try in this country. What induced the House to adopt this principle in the Factory Acts was a well-grounded fear that otherwise the health of the children who worked in those factories would suffer, but there need be no such fear in the rural districts. His experience was that the children who were educated in our schools in the rural districts did not remain there, their ambition being to get into the Excise and Customs. For his own part he did not credit the charges of gross ignorance which were made against the working population of this country. Ignorant they might be in one sense; but then the question was, what constituted ignorance? Some thought that others were ignorant because they did not know what the former knew or come up to their standard. Now the definition he would venture on was that every man was an ignorant man who did not know the business he contracted to perform, and that you had no right to call a man ignorant who did know his business, even though he might not know other things. He had a suggestion to make to all the friends of education who attempted to promote it by delivering lectures and addresses throughout the country—namely, that they would contribute immensely to the success of the cause if, as a general rule, they would make themselves a little less disagreeable
 1148
 COLONEL SYKES  thought it must be admitted that the existing system had produced satisfactory results, though they might not be altogether commensurate with the amount of money expended. The inspectors reported from year to year that the numbers of scholars increased, and it appeared from the Reports of the Registrar General that the number of persons able to sign their names also increased from year to year. The difficulty was in getting children to go to school at all, as long as their parents found their labour profitable. The parochial system of education in Scotland was admirable in its results. Owing to the facilities which the sons of farmers and of small tradesmen enjoyed for going to the Scotch Universities, by the aid of trifling bursaries, many of them became distinguished in science, art, and literature, and took the degree of Master of Arts; and it was of such men that many of the class of parochial schoolmasters in Scotland was composed. He had himself presented a petition some years ago from seven schoolmasters in Aberdeenshire, four of whom were Masters of Arts, while their school salaries did not exceed £28 a year. Men so qualified did turn out scholars competent to go through the University curriculum.
 1155
 MR. BRUCE  observed that what he said was that he preferred taking the average attendance at the schools as a datum rather than the numbers on the books.
 MR. BRUCE  said, he would remind the Committee that the noble Lord in saying that no education was worthy of the name unless it combined religious with secular instruction had in reality censured the policy of the Government, inasmuch as the Bill which the Government had introduced in the other House of Parliament during the present Session had proposed to admit secular schools to the benefits of State assistance, on precisely the same footing as was done at present in the case of schools combining religious with secular instruction.
 MR. A. SEYMOUR  remarked that the Vote had been reduced to the extent of £600 by the two Art Referees having been done away with; but, on the other hand, £300 had been added to the salary of the General Superintendent. He wished to be informed, therefore, whether that gentleman discharged the duties which formerly devolved upon the Art Referees? He thought that if a large sum of money was laid out on an institution like the Kensington Museum, it was advisable the House should see that the public got a  quid pro quo
 COLONEL SYKES  thought no hon. Member ought to grudge the money that had been expended on the South Kensington Museum, which no person, of whatever age, could visit without bringing away a new idea in his mind, at least; he spoke for himself. Indeed, in his opinion, that Museum did as much for the instruction of the people, by the eye, as all the elementary schools in the country.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  doubted whether these very large collections really promoted the circulation of a knowledge of science and art, and expressed his belief that in this respect a few well-chosen specimens were far more effective. A high authority on the subject had remarked that the contemplation of works of art without understanding them jaded the faculties and enslaved the intelligence.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) had asked where the expenditure was to stop, if museums were established at Liverpool and other places. The answer was simply this—Liverpool and other large towns were rich enough to supply themselves with museums; but Bethnal Green was poor, and a Vote of the Committee would enable them to get instruction which otherwise they could not get.
 MR. BRUCE  desired to say a few words on this Vote, inasmuch as it was the late Government that was really responsible for the expenditure to which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bentinck) had just referred. The origin of this Vote had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn). In 1860 the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) moved the appointment of a Committee on the subject, and the Committee recommended that a plan for a permanent building should be adopted. The whole of the South Kensington Museum had been a matter of gradual growth. The production of a plan was in-
 1171
 THE EARL OF MAYO  explained that the increase of the Grant was due to certain representations that had been made to the Government respecting the importance of proper instruction being given to the Irish people in the cultivation of flax by competent instructors. The Vote was not to be regarded as a permanent one.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  observed that a Committee in 1866 had unanimously reported that a salary should be attached to the responsible head of the important office of the Lord Clerk Register; and he wished to know whether the Government intended to adopt the recommendation of the Committee?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied that the sum proposed to be expended in that direction was £1,000. In answer to the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) he might say that the land required for the erection of the Bethnal Green Museum had been purchased.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the reason he had not replied to the Question of his hon. Friend was because the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Merthyr (Mr. Bruce) had given an answer a great deal better than he could have done. His hon. Friend had asked whether he would lay the plans to which he had referred before the House? All he could say was that the plans and the Correspondence had been laid before the House in July, 1866. The buildings in question would cost only £195,000, and the expenditure would be spread over a period of six years. If any further expenditure was to be incurred, it must be done with the sanction of the House. He could not prophesy what the House might think well to do at a future time.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  would say a few words in answer to the remarks which had been made on this subject. The hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes) had complained of the apathy of parents in regard to education and the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk), it appeared, had arrived at the conclusion that we must have compulsory education. Now, he did not think they could carry out a system of compulsory education in England. It might be done in Prussia, but could it be done in England? For in Prussia they were accustomed to rigorous laws, and minute police supervision. But in England persons liked to judge for themselves and to act without governmental interference. In England a man's house, be he poor or rich, was his castle. Suppose the police went to the house of a British labourer and insisted that his children should attend school, what would be the result? The policeman would quickly be ejected through the door. They were not accustomed to such interference. Beside this, a clause for compulsory registration was necessary as the very foundation of a compulsory system. There must be an accurate register of every child in a parish, and a register of every child in school; and these must day by day be compared, and the delinquents hunted up by the police. Yet the House has constantly refused to sanction any clause for the compulsory registration of births. Would they now sanction not only that, but also the machinery necessary for compulsory education also? Moreover, how was it possible to carry it out? How were they to enforce it? Suppose a labourer were summoned because his child did not attend school, and he pleaded poverty, saying he had a large family and small wages, and suppose that he asked why he should not make use of the labour of one of his boys to assist in the maintenance of the family, would the magistrate not be apt to let him off? Next day another labourer would appear with a case nearly but not quite so strong. He would also be acquitted. Then another; he would be discharged. Thus they might drive a coach and four through their Act of Parliament, and there would be an end
 1157 1158 animus 1159 1160
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  denied that this was a local museum. It was in every way national, and the objects displayed there were sent by turns all over the kingdom. What was meant, by the term "local museum?" Had hon. Members ever asked themselves what was meant by a national museum? Every museum must be in some place. Was it therefore local? The inhabitants of Bloomsbury and the rich who had carriages came from a distance to see the British Museum. Yet it was called a national museum. The working classes of Bethnal Green could not reach it; but
 1170
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the hon. Member (Mr. A. Seymour) had proceeded on a wrong assumption with regard to the General Superintendent, who was not called upon to discharge the duties of an Art Referee. It was true, however, that £300 a year had been added to the salary of the gentleman in question—Mr. Cole; but this was by way of recognizing the great efforts he had made in establishing the Museum. Since the abolition of the permanent Art Referees, gentlemen skilled in different branches of science and art were consulted as to intended purchases, and were paid according to a set scale of fees. In each branch the best authority was selected, and the result was that the work was better done and done at a cheaper rate than under the old system. As to the Royal Museum at Bethnal Green, he might remark that it was no more a local institution because it was in Bethnal Green than the British Museum was a local institution from the circumstance of its being situated in Bloomsbury, or than Kew Botanical Gardens because they were in Kew. With reference to the publication of the Art Catalogue in  Notes and Queries 1169
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, it was proposed in the present Estimates to make several important reductions in this Vote. The sum expended in purchases for distribution would be reduced by £10,000; for examples, by £600; for the purchase of food, &c, by £250; photography, by £2,000; and books, by £500; The expenditure on the National Portrait Exhibition would be reduced by the whole amount, £3,000. In reality, the collection had been brought down to the reign of Queen Victoria, and might not be continued. At all events it might now be regarded as self-supporting, inasmuch as the money taken at the doors was very nearly sufficient, if it did not exceed, the sum required for current expenses. It was also proposed to make the important reduction of £3,000 in connection with the Royal Museum, Bethnal Green; £250 in the purchase of books for the Jermyn Street Museum, and £1,000 in the pur-
 1162 s d s d
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the average attendance did not fairly represent the numbers of children who attended the schools, seeing that 42 per cent attended less than 200 times in the year, so that a large number of the children would count as fractions in the average attendance, instead of units. It was for this reason that the average attendance was usually taken as representing only 75 per cent of those who attended school. The hon. Member for Bradford had alluded to the statistics contained in the Report of the Birmingham Educational Society; but it must not be forgotten that these societies were supported by the money they obtained by subscription; and that it was not unlikely that their paid secretaries and treasurers, whose income depended on the existence and amount of funds of the society, would set to work to collect facts respecting educational destitution in large towns, which, put together, would make up most harrowing tales, calculated to induce silly women and doating old gentlemen to subscribe to the funds of the societies. The truth was that no sane man would give implicit credence to the Reports of these institutions, for they obtain their money by making out a bad case. He believed he had now answered all the questions that had been put to him, and he begged in conclusion to thank the Committee for the attention with which they had listened to him.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  entered into an explanation of the causes by which the Vote had been reduced from the original Estimate of £842,554 to the sum proposed. The Estimate had been founded upon the supposition that Use Education Bill introduced by the Government into the other House of Parliament would be carried. But the abandonment of that Bill had, of course, led to the withdrawal of those sums which were founded upon it. Now, in that Bill it was proposed to omit Clause 8 of the Revised Code, by which schools receiving State aid were compelled to be in connection with some religious body, or to make a practice of having the Bible read daily during school hours. Had that clause been omitted, the Congregationalists, who now objected to receiving assistance from the State, would have applied for grants. The increased sum that
 1135 1136 1137 "Throughout the schools the minimum which each child must learn in order to pass for a grant under Article 48 is apt to be of a mechanical character, and to efface that more intellectual aspect; which, under the old system, struck a visitor looking at the best schools as a whole." 1138 s d 1139
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied in the affirmative. There were therefore throughout the country a vast number of really good Church schools, the managers of which refused to receive aid and inspection, and of which, therefore, no account whatever was taken in our Reports. From the figures, however, which he had quoted, it must be perceived that the cause of education had made gradual but very steady advances; and, although there might still be realms of ignorance, yet the territory was day by day being conquered. On this point a good deal of misapprehension existed. What was, according to a careful estimate, the true state of the case? The population of Great Britain in 1861 was 23,271,965, and at the ordinary rate of increase, which in England and Wales was 12 per cent, and in Scotland 6 per cent, during ten years, the population of Great Britain in April, 1868, would be 25,092,168. Of that number the children between 3 and 15 years old would be 6,849,128; and, if each child were at school for the maximum period of six years, there should be at school at one time 3,424,564. Now, as to the number which were actually at school. The Commissioners, in their Report of 1862, page lxxx., divided schools into four classes—namely, Class I., schools of religious denominations; Class II., ragged, Birkbeck, factory, & c. schools; Class III., taxation schools; and Class IV., collegiate and upper-class schools. Let the Committee suppose that there was an increase due to the increase of the population under all these classes except Class III., the taxation schools—that is, pauper and criminal schools—for they would give the advantage to those who tiled to make out a case of educational destitution. He would suppose that the relative amount of poverty and crime decreased in order to make out that education at the same time
 1140
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  believed that the hon. Member for Swansea had missed the true reason for the blunders in public taste which he had denounced. For his own part he maintained that until there was a real Department of Architecture, Science, and Art, there would always be an increase of expenditure and a paralysis of efficient administration. The true remedy for the evil would be found in dissolving the ill-assorted marriage between the Department of Practical Education represented at the Council Office, and the Department of Science and Art, charged as the former was with responsibilities for the conduct of elementary instruction of a totally distinct character from those of its artistic side, and in combining the latter with the more cognate Department of Public Works, under a strong Minister of Arts, Science, and Public Works. To this Committee the trustees of an enlarged
 1164
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that these allowances should be watched with great jealousy, and that it was undesirable to grant them to persons fit for service except on very special grounds. In the case of the Board of Trade the re-organization of the Department had necessitated the abolition of certain offices, some of which had been held for a very long time by men who could not well be now put to junior work. Allowances in these and other cases had been granted with great care.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had inquired into the matter when he was Secretary of the Treasury, and considered that they could not refuse to insert this item. If the Committee now passed this Vote he should be prepared to make a further explanation on the Report.
 MR. DISRAELI  explained that these honours were conferred by Her Majesty, and it was therefore obvious that the item ought to stand.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was thought that if a sum were fixed upon, the application of which was left to the local authorities, the money would go the farthest, and a vote of £500 had therefore been proposed.
 MR. DISRAELI  said the Cattle Market Bill would not be taken on Monday. They would proceed with the Committee on the Scotch Reform Bill, and he hoped afterwards to go on with the Boundary Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already said so.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was somewhat inconvenient that a Question of this kind should be put without Notice. He thought the cases referred to by his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers) were not parallel with the existing position of things. At present a Reform Bill was passed for England; but the Boundary Bill was not passed, and the Reform Bills for Scotland and Ireland were not passed, Therefore, it was utterly impossible to say at present when there could be a dissolution. He hoped that there was no misapprehension as to the desire of the Government to bring about a dissolution as speedily as possible and when the hon. Gentleman suggested that Supply should, in order to insure an early dissolution, only be granted for a limited time, he could assure the House that it was unnecessary for such a course to be taken, as it was the intention of the Government to bring about a dissolution as soon as possible. The period for which the Supplies would be taken must depend on the time when a dissolution was possible. At the present moment it was almost impossible to say when there could he a dissolution. Under these circumstances the House would hardly expect the Government to say for what period they would ask the Supplies; but if the hon. Gentleman would repeat his Question tomorrow he should be happy to give him an answer.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there being no Resolutions passed as yet he was unable to say when they would be reported. It was usual that Resolutions passed in Committee of Supply one evening should be reported the next. Perhaps it would be more convenient to take the Report on Monday than to-morrow.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am afraid my hon. Friend has fallen into a trap which I evaded. My attention was certainly called—as it is called to most things—to a letter purporting to be written by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire on the 26th of May. I believed it to be, and still believe it to be, one of those effusions which, in election language, are sometimes called squibs and sometimes hoaxes. It appeared to me to be a gross caricature of the right hon. Gentleman's least happy style, and as it contained assertions which could not be proved, and which nothing but the excitement of an election would justify, I really have given no further consideration to it.
 MR. DISRAELI : Well, Sir, I am not clouding my meaning in so many phrases; but I understand the meaning to be that the policy of the Government was to endow the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland. Well, what is the proof of it given by the right hon. Gentleman now that he is brought to book? Why that Her Majesty's Ministers intended to increase the  Regium Domun Laughter. Regium Donum Regium Donum 1119 Regium Donum. 1120
 MR. DISRAELI : No, I do not want to see it.
 MR. DISRAELI : I must apologize to the right hon. Gentleman for having expressed a doubt as to the authenticity of the letter. It appears that the right hon. Gentleman did make the statement that Her Majesty's Government had proposed
 1118
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he had taken the trouble to inquire about the Bills on national education which had been brought into that House for the last twenty years, and he could say, with reference to them and to the meetings held in Scotland on the subject, that a single instance would not be found in which a rate was not contemplated as part of the plan. He felt strongly convinced that they would never get a good system of education for the poor until they made it in the interest of the ratepayers to see in what manner their money was expended. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bruce) had ascribed much more importance and merit to the Scotch schools than, he feared, they deserved. Two, three, or four schools were often required now where one was sufficient before, and though much had been done by voluntary efforts there was still a great deficiency. With respect to quoting figures showing the large attendance at schools nothing could be more fallacious. For instance, in the Report issued within the last few days by the Education Commissioners for Ireland it was stated that 913,198 children, or about one sixth of the present population of Ireland, were at school. He did not think they would get a country in Europe where so large a proportion were really at school. But a few lines further on it appeared that the daily average attendance was only 321,515. If the larger number could have been supposed to be in regular attendance, Ireland would be a much better educated country than either England or Scotland, whereas there was a far greater proportion in Ireland of persons who could not sign their names there than in any other part of the United Kingdom. It was a startling fact that this was the 34th Report of the Irish Commissioners. That showed that those schools had been in existence thirty-four years, and that all the young persons married in Ireland within the last few years had an opportunity of attending a national school, and yet the result was that not more than one-half the people of Ireland who had recently been married could sign their names.
 MR. M'LAREN  contended that the office of Lord Clerk Register was a mere sinecure. It was held at one time by a Governor General of India (Lord Dalhousie), it was then abolished, it was then revived as an honorary office, and now it was proposed, without any increase of duties, to make it a salaried office.
 MR. M'LAREN  thought the Vote ought to be altogether omitted, as everybody seemed to have somebody else to watch him, and in that way £1,860 was spent in travelling.
 MR. CARDWELL : However unimportant electioneering letters and electioneering squibs may be, one thing, at least, is most important, and that is that there should be no mistake and no misunderstanding about the declarations made in this House by Ministers of the Crown. There will be an end of Parliamentary government when there is an end of distinct understandings with regard to statements officially made by Ministers. Now, I shall be in the recollection of every Gentleman who was present, when I say that on the night when the right hon. Gentleman came down to the House to state that he had received Her Majesty's commands to form a Government, he told us it would be found that he had a truly Liberal policy for Ireland, and he referred us to the following Tuesday, when, he said, we should hear from the noble Earl the Chief Secretary for Ireland (the Earl of Mayo) what that Liberal policy was. Well, we heard that Liberal policy explained in a speech of great length and great ability—a speech worthy of the noble Earl and of the office he holds; and what did it tell us? It told us that there were questions that were of great interest in Ireland—the Church question, the land question, and the education question, It spoke of a Commission of Inquiry upon each of them, and there was only one practical proposal which was announced as the substance of that Liberal policy—namely, the granting of a charter to a Catholic University. We were distinctly told, and I am sure the noble Earl will not contradict it, that the expenses of that University were to be provided by the Votes of Parliament, and that the Colleges which were to be in connection with that University were to be postponed for the present. The noble Earl said—
 "Seeing that this University question has long been a matter of dispute in Ireland, we do offer a plan by which we believe it may be finally set at rest—a plan which will not in any way interfere with the vitality or strength of existing institutions, but will supply everything which has ever been demanded by those whose religious scruples prevented them from taking advantage of the present system. With regard to endowments it will be essential, of course, if Parliament agrees to the proposal, in the first instance, to provide for the necessary expenses of the University—that is to say, for the expenses of the officers and of the professors, and also to make some provision for a building; and I have no doubt if Parliament approves the schemes it will not be indisposed to
 1121 Regium Donum
 MR. CRAUFURD  agreed in the opinion that the office of Lord Clerk Register ought no longer to be a sinecure.
 GENERAL DUNNE  felt, with the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory), that every town in the country would have as good a right to apply for the establishment of local museums as well as a district of the metropolis. He thought it most preposterous that while the Science and Art Grant to the whole of Scotland was only £17,000, and in Ireland an amount incommensurate with her wants and the taxation she paid, one of the most unpromising districts in London got £15,000. The Geological Survey, if properly carried out, was a matter of considerable importance, especially in regard to coal, and he had on a former occasion wished to know whether the labours of the Commission were to extend to Ireland? The Secretary to the Treasury had promised to inquire and state the decision come to on this point, and he now wished to renew the question.
 GENERAL DUNNE , in rising to call attention to the position of the Clerks in the Engineer Department, said, that he received from the Under Secretary for War in 1866 an assurance that the case of these clerks should be referred to a Committee then sitting. Formerly they had the privilege of rising to places of trust and great emolument—even as much as £800 a year—but in 1858 a change was made, and now they could not rise to salaries of upwards of £270, with very slow promotion. Besides the officers he had mentioned, there were others, such as purveyors, keepers of stores, and others who are called civil officers, and upon whom, by a Warrant issued in the present year, was conferred what was called relative rank. This was a mischievous course to be taken, one which had in no single case produced good, but had in very many instances tended to bring about confusion. Then, further, all the civil officers were, or were supposed to be, entitled to certain allowances, which, indeed, were actually granted to all such officers except those engaged as clerks of works and clerks in Engineering Departments. The latter received these allowances when they went abroad; but when they returned to this country they were deprived of them. There was no reason why these allowances should be given to one class of civil officers and denied to others. All other civil officers, moreover, were entitled to pensions for their widows and orphans; but he held in his hand a list of several of these officers who had died abroad from the climate, and it was hard that their widows should receive no pensions. It might be said that they were entitled to superannuations under the Superannuation Act; but considering that they could hardly expect to arrive at salaries of £270 a year, their superannuation allowances would be exceedingly trifling. These officers were not only employed in distant and unhealthy countries, but they were sometimes under fire. It was strange that when the Committee on Army Organization sat it did not consider their case. In March, 1863, a Warrant was issued from the War Department actually granting these allowances, and they were even paid; but two months afterwards the order was cancelled and these gentlemen were made to refund the money. Some learned au-
 1125
 MR. BENTINCK  said, his noble Friend (Lord Robert Montagu) had made no allusion to the question of the permanent building. In 1866 an Estimate was laid before the House, showing that £420,000 was asked for by the Science and Art Department for the permanent building. The Treasury reduced the amount to £220,000. Last year the Estimate was brought on for discussion on the 9th of August, when nobody was present, and the result was that it passed without attracting public attention. What he wanted to know was whether the Government had agreed with the officials of the Science and Art Department to limit the expenditure to £195,000, and, if so, where were the plans to show how that sum was to be expended? He should be glad to learn whether the noble Lord was willing to guarantee that, after the £195,000 had been ex-pended at the rate of £32,000 per annum, no further sum would be asked for.
 MR. BENTINCK  complained of not having received a reply to his inquiry. He asked whether any plans of the building, which it was said was to cost £195,000, would be laid before the Committee?
 MR. BENTINCK  expressed a hope that this Vote would not be pressed that night in the absence of many hon. Gentlemen who took an interest in it.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he was sorry he could not accede to the request of the hon. Gentleman. He had already intimated his intention of bringing on the Vote.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he would remind the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Alderman Lusk) that on the death of Admiral FitzRoy, who had conducted certain meteorological experiments for many years, and who received n certain sum for that purpose, a Committee was appointed jointly by the Board of Trade, the Admiralty, and the Royal Society, for the purpose of taking into consideration the advisability of continuing those experiments. That Committee, by their Report in 1866, recommended that a Committee should be appointed to administer a sum of £10,000, to be appropriated in continuation of the efforts made by Admiral FitzRoy to obtain something like a uniformity of statistics with reference to the weather throughout the country, so as to enable people to fore cast, if possible, the probability of storms approaching our coasts. The Treasury assented to that proposal, and the whole of the management of those experiments was undertaken by a Committee of the Royal Society, it being understood that under no circumstances was any further demand to be made upon the public Revenue for this purpose.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he did not think it any part of his duty to follow the hon. and gallant Member into details as to the policy of the suppression of the slave trade or the possibility of making further reduction in the West Coast squadron. He should confine himself to answering the Question put to him; and, in a great degree, the hon. and gallant Member had himself anticipated the answer he had to give. The greater portion of the slaves had been captured on the Eastern, not on the Western, Coast of Africa. The majority of the slaves captured on the West Coast were taken, not by Her Majesty's ships, but by coasting vessels. District officers captured, in 1863, 50 slaves; in 1864, 39, out of a total of 45 seized; and in 1865, 35 slaves. The following were the relative numbers of slaves captured on the East and West Coasts:—In 1863, on the East Coast 383, on the West 1,475; in 1864, on the East Coast 110, on the West 45; in 1865, on the East Coast 645, on the West 35; in 1866, on the East Coast 831, on the West none; and in 1867, on the East Coast 382, and none on the
 1132 s
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that as it would have required four times the amount of the grant—namely, £2,000, to keep the Academy in a satisfactory condition, and as other societies were pressing their claims for support, it was thought advisable to withdraw the grant. He hoped, however, that an extended plan for imparting a good musical education would sooner or later be brought before Parliament.
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH  said, it was true that ill the case of Lord Dalhousie the office of the Lord Clerk Register was a sinecure. The duties were performed by a deputy, but Lord Dalhousie did not receive the salary. The salary had been abolished by Act of Parliament, and could only be revived by the same means. He certainly thought that the office ought not to be a sinecure; but as to the extent to which the office might require revision, and what the amount of salary ought to be, he was not prepared to give any opinion.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he hoped the hon. Baronet would not persevere in the Motion. The Vote was to provide for current expenses, many items of which had been incurred during the past year. At present there was a Treasury Commission investigating this head of expenditure, which would probably lead to considerable reductions.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, this subject had been for some time under the consideration of the Post Office authorities; but he was unable to state that they had arrived at any decision on the subject. The matter was still under their consideration, and perhaps his hon. Friend would repeat his Question on a future day.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he rose merely to ask the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) a Question with reference to the Conscience Clause. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government during the coming year, in the absence of any Bill on the subject of education, to carry out the Conscience Clause in the manner and in the form in which it had hitherto been carried out by the Privy Council, or whether it was intended only to apply it in the very limited and, as he he thought, very imperfect manner in which it was proposed to carry it out in the Education Bill which had been laid before the House of Lords? He regretted very much that the Education Bill, which had been introduced into the House of Lords by the Lord President (the Duke of Marlborough), after passing through several stages had been withdrawn; for though it might not have passed, in consequence of the pressure of business, it would have been
 1154
 MR. H. E. SURTEES  said, that his hon. Friend (Sir Thomas Bateson) had made a great omission in not asking the right hon. Member for South Lancashire to explain his statement about the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Rearden). The right hon. Gentleman stated that the hon. Member was no supporter of his or of the Liberal party, and that he believed he had voted against him on most important occasions, except those connected with the Irish Church. Now, taking the Division Lists of those divisions in which the party "whips" had acted as tellers, he found that in no single case had the hon. Member for Athlone in 1868 voted against the right hon. Gentleman, In 1867 the hon. Member had voted against the right hon. Gentleman on the Representation of the People Bill, which, if carried, would have caused a dissolution. In 1866 the hon. Member for Athlone had voted against the right hon. Gentleman upon such matters as the Amendment of the hon. Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue) on the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act, the Cattle Plague Bill, the Marine Mutiny Bill, and the Contagious Diseases Bill. And he had yet to learn that the fact of the hon. Member for Athlone voting against the right hon. Gentleman on such measures as the Contagious Diseases Bill, & c, disqualified him from being considered a supporter of the Leader of the Opposi-hon. He was also informed that the hon. Member for Athlone received the missives of the right hon. Gentleman's "whips," and he should now have asked the hon. Member for Athlone a Question of which he had given him Notice, only that he did not see the hon. Member in the House—namely, whether the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman, that the hon. Member was no supporter of the Leader of the Opposition, was correct.
 MR. CHILDERS  objected to the charge for repairs.
 MR. CHILDERS  thought this nut a party question but a constitutional question of great importance, and he wished to know whether, in the event of Resolutions being taken to-night, the right hon. Gentleman would be prepared to say on Mon-
 1130
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished, before the House went into Committee of Supply, to put a Question of some importance to the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to the Estimates which were about to be submitted. The Government were defeated at the end of April or the beginning of May upon a question which, under ordinary circumstances, would have
 1127 1128 "In regard to the Miscellaneous Estimates, they would take the same course which was pursued in 1830, on the death of George IV. They proposed to take a sum on account for six months from the 1st of April last, sufficient to supply the immediate wants of the Budget and prevent inconvenience to individual and public officers."—[3  Hansard, "The Chancellor of the Exchequer proposes to take the whole of the remaining Estimates for six months. That appeared to him to be a material departure from the usual course … Not only ought the act of dissolution to be as soon as it could take place consistently with the manifest demands of the public service; but the new Parliament should be convoked immediately. If the noble Lord took a Vote for the various remaining Estimates for six months, that would clearly enable His would submit to the House that taking a Vote on the Estimates for three months would be amply sufficient. Still, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would say that there were certain Votes for which a grant of three months would not suffice, he would grant the additional sum."—[3  Hansard, 1129
 MR. CHILDERS  asked for an explanation of the item of £6,070 for robes, collars, and badges for the Knights of the several Orders, the charge last year having been only £1,500?
 MR. CHILDERS  pointed out how the Vote had increased, although it was to have been only temporary, and trusted it would speedily disappear altogether from the Estimates.
 MR. CHILDERS  renewed the question he had put on a previous evening, as to the absrdity of sending the convicts to Gibraltar, when their labour would be of value in this country, and desired to know whether his hon. Friend (Sir James Fergusson) could give him an assurance that the present extravagant system should be altered?
 MR. CANDLISH  reminded the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu), that he had not informed the Committee how much of the Vote was to be expended on the Art Catalogue.
 MR. LOCKE  asked how the £20,000 set down for the "Auxiliary Museum in the East of London" was to be expended? He had understood that it was to be applied to the purchase of the land at Bethnal Green. Was it to be devoted to carting away the "Brompton boilers" to Bethnal Green?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he could not understand what the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) meant. He would not have any Conscience Clause—he would not have this—he would not have that—it appeared he would not have anything. It was all very well to talk of "a simple system;" but what did a simple system mean? Discussions of that kind might go on all night long; there was no reason for their ever coming to an end. The best thing they could do was to vote some money for that which did exist. It was certainly better than nothing; and his hon. Friend did not point out anything that was better except nothing. He (Mr. Locke) was at a loss to know where they were. The hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes) told them of the number of Masters of Arts that were schoolmasters in Scotland. But he had always heard that Aberdeen Masters of Art were not to be relied on; and as for Aberdeen doctors, they were a mere joke, for in his early days any man who sent £10 to the Aberdeen University might be made a doctor. But what had all this to do with the question? If
 1156
 MR. DILLWYN  protested against the principle of granting money to the Bethnal Green Museum, on the ground that it was to be a means of education to the people of the East End of London as distinct from those of the West. Were that principle thoroughly carried out, Liverpool or Swansea might advance claims for money upon the same ground. One of his objections to the South Kensington Museum was that it was a local museum scattered about in: different places; and he always thought it would have been better if the large sum spent there had been expended on the British Museum. He insisted that there ought to be a collection of works of art and science in the metropolis worthy of the nation, and; not a collection merely for the purpose of; educating a locality in science and art. If collections were to be established in particular localities, where was the expenditure for such things to stop? If every locality was to have its collection, the expense would be gigantic. He suggested that the appointments, which were very good ones, in the national collection, should be held out as premiums to men who distinguished themselves in art and science.
 MR. DILLWYN  commented upon the rapidity with which the Vote for this Department had of late years been increasing. In spite of the reduction of the original Estimate there was still an increase of over £8,000. For his own part there were several directions in which he would rather witness a reduction of the Vote than in the purchase of books. It was, however, of very little, if any use, for any Member to attempt a reduction, because his experience had shown him that an hon. Member in making such an attempt would be undertaking a thankless task, and one in which he had very little chance of being successful, especially when the reduction proposed was at all connected with the Science and Art Department. His attention was first directed to this subject in 1855, when he was entirely new to the ways of the House, and when the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright)—then the hon. Member for Manchester—predicted, in language which at the time he regarded as overstrained,
 1163
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  considered that these officers were in the same position and exposed to the same dangers as army surgeons and other non-combatants, and that it was but fair that their widows should be placed precisely upon the same footing as the widows of non-combatants or regular military officers.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he saw that the sum of £15,000 was to be appropriated to purchases made at the recent Paris Exhibition, and he should be glad to know what was the precise nature of those purchases?
 MR. P. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  said, that previous to the time when these officers were made liable to service abroad there might have been some reason in not giving their widows pensions; but since they had been employed in every part of the globe the case was very different, because even where they had insured their lives the insurance companies would not allow thorn to keep up their insurances when they went to unhealthy climates. In one case one of these gentlemen, having been sent to Cape Coast Castle, the insurance company refused to renew his life policy, and he died from the climate, leaving a widow and five children, who thus lost every farthing of the insurance money. When the matter was represented to the War Office, the Department said there was no special provision for such cases, and nothing could be done for the widow. In another instance one of these officers died in the West Indies through having been ordered to remain at a station from which the troops were removed on account of its unhealthiness, and his life insurance was forfeited in consequence. If the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) looked into the merits of that question, and did not suffer himself to be misled by the permanent officials of his Department, no doubt he would favourably entertain the claims of these unfortunate men.
 MR. LOWE  asked when the Repot t of Supply would be taken?
 MR. T. BARING  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Post Office Department contemplates the renewal of the direct Postal Communication by Steam Packets with Penang, which that Settlement has enjoyed for the last twenty-two years; and, if so, what are the measures to be adopted?
 SIR THOMAS BATESON : Being opposed to the endowment of the Church of Rome in any form, I wish to put a Question to the First Minister of the Crown, and I trust he will be able to give a clear and explicit Answer. ["Order."] Well, I will ask him if he can save a clear and explicit Answer; and also, if he is aware that the sympathies of many hon. Members on this side of the House depend upon the Answer he will give? I wish to ask, Whether his attention has been directed to a Letter purporting to be written by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire on the 26th May, with reference to the East Worcestershire Election, in which it is stated that Her Majesty's Government proposed during the present Session to endow the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, and also to create a Roman Catholic University, paying its expenses out of the taxes of the country; and how far such statement is correct?
 SIR THOMAS BATESON : I omitted from my Notice the words "during the present Session," after reading the letter more carefully.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  thought that the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) had not dealt justly with the society to which he had referred in such strong language. The object of that society was not primarily to obtain information; it was to send those to school whose non-attendance was due to the apathy of their parents. In that object it had attained great success, and if the noble Lord had given the subject any consideration he felt certain that he would not have given expression to the opinions which had fallen from him that evening.
 MR. W. B. FORSTER  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) that this Vote should not be proposed so early in the Session, or else that the Report should be issued sooner. With regard to the small schools, he believed that to relax the demand for certificates on account of the size of a school would be unwise. The districts which urgently required assistance, owing to the absence or the illiberality of wealthy residents, no doubt deserved consideration; but he thought their claims should be met by an arrangement based on the condition of the district, and not on the size of the school, he believed the inspectors would agree with him that inspection as at present carried on could not be relied on as the sole guarantee for the efficiency of a school. To make it such the number of inspectors would have to be increased and their visits lengthened, this requiring an increased expenditure, at which the Committee would probably be surprised, so that as things stood the guarantee of the good training of the master must be retained as well as that of inspection. As to the Workshops Act, he hoped too sanguine expectations of its results would not be indulged in. He rejoiced at its passing, since it was a recog-
 1151 1152 1153
 MR. GREGORY  concurred with his hon. Friend who had last spoken (Mr. Beresford Hope) that institutions of science and art to be efficient must be supported with generosity by the nation, and he did not think the total amount totted up by the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) need alarm the House of Commons. It was of great importance, however, to have regularity and systematic exhibition in the Department, and it was still more import-
 1165 The Times The Times 1166 The Times. Notes and Queries Notes and Queries
 MR. GREGORY  said, his criticism upon the Bethnal Green Museum had not been dictated by any feeling against that particular district. He should be glad to witness a more general extension of museums over the country; but he thought some definite and fixed principle ought to be laid down, so that persons in different localities might know what local exertion was necessary before they could expect to receive any State assistance. The Art Catalogue, however, to which the responsibility of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Merthyr Tydfil (Mr. Bruce) also extended, was the subject to which he now particularly desired to allude. The opinions referred to by the noble Lord did not in the slightest degree justify the preparation of this enormous catalogue, in the first number of which thirty-five different editions of  Æsop 1172
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, this Vote had increased by more than £8,000. He complained that offices were abolished and young officers pensioned, and new clerks appointed. The officers, instead of being pensioned, ought to be transferred to other Departments and utilized.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, the War Office had pensioned a number of clerks, some not very old, and at the same time the number of clerks had been increased.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  withdrew his Motion, but gave notice that he should move the reduction of the Vote by £4,500 on the Report.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  complained that the greater part of the Vote was really expended in travelling expenses—namely, £1,860, and he also condemned the principle of the Vote. Why should Irishmen be, as it were, bribed to do ther duty to themselves? The farmers of Ireland were intelligent men and could get on very well without it, if they were left alone. He moved the omission of the item.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he was anxious to know who were the parties responsible for the expenditure in the Department under discussion. He was of opinion that it would be much better to expend a large sum at once upon a suitable building than to be annually spending amounts of money in detail for the purpose of enlarging and improving the present edifice, which was by no means an ornament.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  complained of the elaborate system and the different classes of schools which the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) had described. The people were puzzled to choose among be many, and they did not send their children anywhere. It was discreditable to the country that so many children never went to school, and he believed that the sooner they abolished the Conscience and such like clauses and adopted one simple non-denominational system, the better. He thought the plan pursued with regard to the payment of the police should be adopted in respect to education. One-third or one-fourth of the expense should be paid by the Consolidated Fund, and the other two-thirds or three-fourths thrown on the rates. Where there was a will there was a way, and they ought to make up their minds that elementary education should be compulsory.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he had a great respect for antiquities, but would be glad to learn if the country had obtained full value for the money which it was proposed to vote.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  inquired what result had been obtained by the inquiries conducted by these learned societies?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  complained of the item of £6,000 for robes, badges, and collars which had increased to that sum from £1,500, at which it stood last year. He thought such a sum unreasonable, and one that could not be justified. He moved that it be reduced to that amount, £1,500.
 MR. POWELL  remarked that the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken (Mr. M'Laren) had fallen into an inaccuracy
 1149 1150
 MR. POWELL  thought the House ought to be generous in dealing with any Government proposal for the cultivation of science and art. He wished, however, for some explanation of a charge of £3,000 for the preparation of papers, &c. for examination?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  asked for an explanation as to the withdrawal of the grant of £500 to the Royal Academy of Music?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It was not intended by the late Government to establish a University, but only to extend the powers of the Queen's University; and there were scholarships to be endowed in connection with that University, but with this difference, that they were to be entirely undenominational and were to be open to students from all the Colleges affiliated, whereas the scholarships connected with an exclusive University, such as was contemplated by the present Government, must be exclusive scholarships.
 SIR GEORGE GREY :I am sorry to be obliged again to correct a misstatement—no doubt an unintentional misstatement—made by the noble Earl as to the intention of the late Government on the subject of University education. The noble Earl has repeated what I was obliged to contradict on a previous occasion, that the late Government intended to found a new University, and to endow it with scholarships in connection with it. [The Earl of MAYO: I said "Colleges."] If the noble Earl meant Colleges and not a University, I utterly deny that any intention existed on the part of the late Government to found scholarships in connection with such Colleges.
 SIR GEORGE STUCLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been called to the statement made by Captain Hozier, in Vol. II. of  The Seven Weeks' War
 SIR GEORGE STUCLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is conducive to the health and discipline of officers and men to send them from their depots in England so that they shall arrive in India during the months of April or May; thus spending their summer, exposed to the heat at Kurrachee or elsewhere, away from the Commanding Officers of their own regiments, or occupied in travelling during the intense heat of summer to join their regiments in the North-West Provinces?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, the the fact was that the convict prisons in England were full. Formerly that was not the case, because 600 convicts were sent to Australia every year; but now, in consequence of transportation having been put an end to and from the fact that under sentences of penal servitude convicts were subjected to more lengthened detention, we had more convicts at home than we could
 1177
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  objected to the enormous expense of the inspectors of cattle. He begged to move the reduction of the Vote by the sum of £11,058, being the amount charged for the Veterinary Department of the Privy Council.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that last year, in consequence of the system of sending troops overland to India, some of them did arrive somewhat later than they should have done; but with regard to the transport of troops in the approaching season, he hoped none of them would arrive in India later than the month of February.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I cannot pretend to offer any opinion upon a Question of this technical character; and my answer must be that this question of the uniform of the British troops is entirely one for the Executive Departments of the army. All I have to do is to report the Question, and I shall certainly do so, to the Commander-in-Chief.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not disposed to admit that these clerks in the Engineer department ought to be regarded as soldiers; but he could not deny
 1126
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  was of opinion that the Scotch Members had a right to complain of the surplus fees being sent to the Treasury without adequate provision being made for the performance of official duties.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, that the powers of the Lord Clerk Register were already very great, and that both his powers and duties would be considerably increased by a Bill now before the House; it appeared to him neither expedient nor fair to confer powers or impose duties on an unsalaried officer.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  remarked that the reason assigned for the publication of the Art Catalogue was that the attention of persons interested in art would be directed to it, and that they would make corrections and additions as the work progressed. It would be satisfactory to know whether such a result had followed the publication of the catalogue, and also whether there had been any demand for the work on the part of the public.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  thought he had a little to complain of, as lie did not get notice of this Motion.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Notice was on the Paper, and he fixed it for to-day in order to escape the charge of delaying the Bill.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  contended that this could not be regarded as a Private Bill, and should not he subject to the laws which applied to Bills of that description. A Private Bill was a Bill introduced for the particular benefit of certain persons. Their benefit was, of course, the injury of others. A Committee was therefore appointed by Parliament to adjust their conflicting interests—and Parliament acted in its judicial capacity. Then a surprise, or a point suddenly raised without due notice might cause considerable injury to one of the parties, and might prevent the Committee from judging justly. Hence, the Standing Order which applied to the case. But this was a Public Bill, as a reference to Sir Thomas May's book, at pages 627, 628, and 728 would show. This was a Bill for the benefit of the country at large. It stood among the Orders for Public Bills, and could not, in any way, be regarded as a Bill for the particular benefit of any individuals. Besides which, there had been no surprise, in the matter, because, in November last year, he himself gave Notice of the clause in question, and it had appeared on the Notice Paper every Saturday since. That Notice was quite in accordance with the Preamble of the Bill. The Preamble stated that it was expedient to make a market for the sale and slaughter of cattle, and if the slaughter
 1179
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had no intention of delaying the progress of the Bill; but the course he proposed would not occasion any delay, as the Bill was not to be proceeded with until Monday week, and during next week there would be ample time for the inquiry he proposed.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  then moved, in order that the persons interested might have full notice, and be able to send in their memorials to the Examiners, the addition to his first Motion of the following words—
 "Memorials complaining of non-compliance with the Standing Orders be deposited in the Private Bill Office not later than Tuesday the 9th day of this instant June, and that the Examiner do give three clear days' notice of the sitting."
 MR. DODSON  pointed out that such a Resolution was hardly necessary, as the Examiners were in the habit of giving two days' notice, and he thought it would be sufficient if the matter were left to them.
 MR. STOPFORD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to adopt the recommendation of the Select Committee as to the non-extension of the Boundaries of fifteen Boroughs, contrary to the Report of the Boundary Commissioners?
 MR. MAC EVOY , in reply, said, except that inferentially, by means of the Notice of the hon. Member, he had no reason to think that any such meeting as that to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been held. If the hon. Member was correctly informed upon the subject, he must enjoy more of the confidence of the Roman Catholic prelates than he (Mr. Mac Evoy) could lay any claim to. With regard to
 1182
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, with reference to his promise that Vote 18 in the Army Estimates (Administration of the Army), should not be taken until a statement of the proposed changes in the organization of the War Department had been laid upon the Table of the House, When that statement will be submitted to Parliament; and, whether any statement of proposed alterations in the audit of Military Accounts will be laid before Parliament in sufficient time to enable the Committee of Public Accounts to consider them during the present Session?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he and others were under the impression that, in the course of a desultory conversation in Committee on the Army Estimates, the understanding that Vote 18 shall not be taken till the statement in question has been laid on the table of the House was arrived at. It is most important that the House shall have the statement before proceeding to the Vote.
 MR. CORRY  said, in reply, that under the wording of the statutes the daughters of seamen and marines killed in action would appear to have an equal claim with their sons to share in the funds of the Hospital, It was not the intention of the Admiralty to re-establish a girls' school in connection with Greenwich Hospital, but they were disposed to think that a certain portion of the income of that institution might be appropriated to the purpose of aiding local institutions for the education of the daughters of seamen and marines in the various ports. The question was referred to in the Report of the Greenwich Hospital Committee which would be presented in a few days, when his hon. Friend would see what was proposed.
 LORD CLAUD JOHN HAMILTON  said, he rose to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) in reference to this Bill. He said the right hon. Gentleman had expressed a desire to respect all vested interests, and there were in Ireland a large and meritorious body of gentlemen — the vicars-general and registrars of different dioceses—who held their offices for life by patent; but whose incomes derived from fees for the registration of institutions and consecrations, would, if the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman became law—and he (Lord Claud John Hamilton) sincerely hoped
 1185
 MR. GLADSTONE : It is the fashion, sometimes, to complain of want of Notice. I think the noble Lord would have done better to have placed a Notice of his Question upon the Paper; and probably a better course still would be to raise the question in Committee; but, as at present advised, I may say that I apprehend the gentlemen in question are entitled to certain fees for the performance of certain duties. But I am not aware of any fact—no representation has been made to me to show that they have a light to require that certain things shall be done in order that they may receive fees for doing them.
 MR. CORRY  said, in reply, that the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the present system of management of Greenwich Hospital and Schools, together with the Evidence, which was voluminous, would be in the hands of Members in a few days.
 MR. AYTOUN  rose to move an Instruction to the Committee—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee, that they have power to provide in the said Bill, that the tenure of every office connected with the College of Maynooth be subject to like conditions with those to which official tenures connected with the Established Church in Ireland will be subject after the passing of this Act, and that no money shall be payable under the Act 8 and 9 Vic. c. 25, to the Trustees of the College of Maynooth for or for the use of any senior student or other student to be admitted after the passing of this Act." 1186 Regium Donum "It shall not be lawful for the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for Ireland to make any new grant for the building, rebuilding, or enlarging of any church or chapel, or for the building of any glebe house, or the augmentation of any benefice or the maintenance of any minister or the purchase of any house, land, or tithe-rent charge." 1187
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, he considered this Instruction quite unnecessary, and quite irrelevant to the Bill before the House. The object of the Bill was not to disestablish the Irish Church, but to prevent the growth of new personal interests in it between the present time and the period when the new Parliament, to which that matter was to be relegated, would come to deal with it. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Aytoun) desired to establish religious equality, but his proposal, if carried, would have a totally different result. It was a mistake to say that the Bill gave effect to the 1st Resolution of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). That was remitted to the new Parliament. The Bill gave effect only to the 2nd Resolution, which was merely intended to prevent the growth of new vested interests in the interim. The hon. Member said he wished, by his Instruction, to carry out the 4th Resolution, but the 4th Resolution
 1188 Regium Donum Regium Donum Regium Donum "Every person who shall be appointed to any office in the College of Maynooth, after the passing of this Act, shall hold the said office subject to the pleasure of Parliament."
 MR. GLADSTONE : On a former evening when my hon. Friend behind me (Mr. Aytoun) made a Motion relating to this subject, before the Bill was introduced, we were necessarily led to enter upon questions by which deep feelings were likely to be excited, because religious differences and questions of principle were involved. But I am not aware that on the present occasion any topic of that hind can naturally or properly be introduced; because, in fact, on the former occasion we determined the principles on which we would proceed, and left for consideration nothing but questions, important indeed, but comparatively small, as to the mode in which effect was to be given to those principles. I wish just to point out to the hon. Gentleman that in my opinion he cannot consistently vote in favour of his own Instruction, because I am sure his intention is to adhere to the basis on which the House founded these proceedings, and his Instruction as it stands does not adhere to that principle As the hon. Member for Longford (Colonel Greville-Nugent) has pointed out, there are two stages in the process which we on this side of the House contemplate. One is the final and entire disestablishment of the Church in Ireland, and the other the establishment of a provisional and intermediate state of things under which, as we consider, every spiritual and pastoral office of the Church is to go forward without difficulty and with sufficient provision made for it from the same sources as before, but no new vested interest is to be created. The House has adopted a Resolution to the effect that when legislative effect is given to the 1st Resolution about the disestablishment of the Irish Church, then the grants connected with Presbyterian and Roman Catholic purposes shall be wound up. I think my hon. Friend will see that he cannot possibly found his Instruction upon that Resolution. It is too much, and it is too little. It is too much, because the 4th Resolution points simply to the period of the disestablishment as the period at which certain measures are to be taken with regard to bodies other than the Established Church; while this Instruction would stop absolutely, so far as the admission of new students is concerned, the
 1190 Regium Donum 1191 1192 Regium Donum
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he considered that the endowments of Maynooth would be placed by the Instruction on the same footing as those of the Established Church of Ireland under the Suspensory Act. The difference between the Resolution now proposed and the 4th Resolution adopted by the House was, that by this Resolution the action of the law would be simultaneous in reference to Maynooth with the action of the law in reference to the endowments of the Established Church. The endowment of Maynooth was a legislative creation. Prior to the Act of 1845, the provision for the officers of Maynooth, and also for the senior students, who were like the University scholars at Oxford, was voted from year to year in the Estimates. If it should be the pleasure of Parliament they might revert, to
 1193 Regium Donum
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, he thought, after the exposition which had been given by his right hon. Friend below him (Mr. Gladstone), he should best consult the opinion of the House by asking leave to withdraw his Amendment. He should leave it to the new constituency to decide the question of the  Regium Donum
 MR. SPEAKER  asked whether it be the pleasure of the House that the hon. Member have leave to withdraw his Amendment? ["No, no!"]
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would again appeal to the Government on the question which now opened for their consideration; it was one simply as to the mode of procedure usual in the House, Here was an Act charging on the Consolidated Fund a certain sum of money for the purpose of providing for the expenses of Maynooth; and the proposal before
 1194
 MR GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, so far as I am concerned, 1 had no wish that any further interference should take place at this stage of the Bill; but it seems to me that in principle the proposal of the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy (Mr. Aytoun) and also that of the hon. Member for Longford (Colonel Greville-Nugent) is just in itself and in accordance with the provisions of the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone). The mode of carrying out the object of this proposal appears to me to be comparatively immaterial as long as we give full notice to the
 1195
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he thought that the system of instructing Committees had been carried to too great a length. The House had agreed that it should be an Instruction to the Committee of the Whole House on the Scotch Reform Bill that certain English boroughs should be disfranchised, and now it was proposed that it should be an Instruction to the Committee of the Whole House upon a Bill relating to the Established Church that provisions should be introduced with regard to the College of Maynooth. There was no legal parity whatever between the benefices of the Irish Church, which were freeholds vested in the persons holding them, and the endowments of Maynooth, which were annuities created by Parliament, and therefore liable to be dealt with at the pleasure of Parliament. He did not understand why Her Majesty's Government, who were opposed to the suspension of appointments in the Established Church in Ireland should be in favour of the suspension of those in the College of Maynooth. He hoped that the House would reject this Instruction.
 MR. COGAN  said, he hoped the House would not interpose to prevent the hon. Member for Longford (Colonel Greville-
 1196
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, he was glad that the Government had not, by giving advice, fallen into the trap which had been laid for them by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who was entitled to the whole discredit which might attach to the Bill, which he (Colonel Stuart Knox) hoped would never become law.
 MR. AYTOUN , in reply to the hon. Member for Kildare (Mr. Cogan), said, that of course the clause introduced in accordance with the Instruction would only last for the same time as the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  observed that it was no use going to a division on a question on which there was no real difference of opinion. A division would very inadequately express the opinion of the House, and the only question was how the wish of the House was to be accomplished —that no new vested interests should be created in Maynooth or the  Regium Donum 1197 Regium Donum
 COLONEL STUART KNOX , in seconding the Amendment, said, he wished to call attention to three proposals which had been made in the House in the course of the present Session, and which had electrified not the House only but the whole country. One of these proposals he would only refer to for the purpose of expressing his contempt for it. He regretted that it had come from an Irish Member. He might say that he had thought it his duty to give Notice to the hon. Gentleman, who was now in his place, and with whom it had originated, that it was his (Colonel Knox's) intention to allude to it, in order that that hon. Gentleman might have an opportunity of offering an explanation, if he deemed it necessary to do so.
 MR. REARDEN  rose to Order. He wished to know whether it was Parliamentary for an hon. Member to express
 1204
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he did not hear the hon. and gallant Member say anything to justify this interruption.
 MR. REARDEN : The hon. and gallant Gentleman said he should express his contempt for some remarks which, as implied, were made by me; for he pointedly referred to me. I want to know, Sir, whether that language of the hon. and gallant Member is Parliamentary?
 MR. SPEAKER : I did not hear the expression referred to by the hon. Member, or I should have observed upon it at the moment.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, the second proposal was that of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen), relating to the Oath taken by the Queen at her coronation. He believed, however, that the hon. Baronet himself asserted that his proposal did not affect the Coronation Oath; but, at all events, the document which had been placed upon the table was entitled, "The Oath taken at Her Majesty's Coronation." This proposal, therefore, indicated to the country the intentions of the right hon. Gentleman's supporters, if not of the right hon. Gentleman himself. The third proposal was that now under discussion. On a former occasion the right hon. Gentleman had admonished him that if he read his book he would improve his mind. He had since acted on that advice; and the conclusion he arrived at was that the inspired author of that work could not have come forward with his present proposal except with a perfect conviction that he was in the right. At the same time, he was of opinion that he had a right to pick up and make use of the book which the right hon. Gentleman had thrown into the gutter. In the first place, then, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman what was the present state of affairs. In the right hon. Gentleman's own words—
 "Probably there never was a time in the history of this country when the connection between Church and State was threatened from quarters so manifold and various as at present. The infidel, with sagacious instinct, follows out all that j tends to general diminution of religious influences. The Romanist (with some exceptions), in order to erect his own structure of faith and discipline, now seems to aim first at the demolition of every; other, and to deem us so involved in fatal error that we must pass through the zero of national I infidelity in order to arrive at truth. Some others i of a different stamp are beginning to view the
 1205 "The mass of the people remains firm in its adhesion to the ancient principles of the Constitution and the Church. It appears still to be their belief that the connection of Church and State is conformable to the will of God, essential to the permanent well-being of a community, and calculated to extend and establish the vital influences of Christianity. Upon us of this day has fallen, and we shrink not from it, a glorious and righteous duty—the defence of the Reformed Church in Ireland as the religious Establishment of the country."
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, as an independent Member of that House, sympathizing with those who held that Protestant ascendancy in Church and State had been the best work of civil and religious liberty in this country, and as representing a most important constituency, the great majority of whom were Church-going Protestants, and as officially representing 150,000 Orangemen, who felt strongly on this subject, and who were determined to defend the Established Church in Ireland, and to resist to the utmost any attempt to apply the resources of that Church to the purposes of the Roman Catholic religion, he protested against the legislation proposed by the right lion. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). It had been stated over and over again in that House, that the Roman Catholics of Ireland looked upon the Established Church there as a grievance, an injustice, and an insult. It was easy enough to make that assertion,
 1206 1207 1208
 MR. LEFROY  said, he could not allow the opportunity to pass without offering a few remarks upon the subject, and at the same time he wished to address a question to the right hon Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire. One of his great arguments in favour of this Bill was, that the Roman Catholic population of Ireland was so great that they were entitled to this boon; and what he wished to ask was, whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to carry out his view with regard to Wales (where there was a national Church, and services were performed in the Welsh language? ["Oh !" "Hear, hear !"  and 1209 Letter on the French Revolution "It is said numbers ought to prevail. True, if the Constitution of a kingdom be a problem of arithmetic, this sort of discourse does well enough for the lamp-post as its second. To men who may reason calmly it is ridiculous. The will of the many and their interest must very often differ, and great will be the difference when they make an evil choice." Letter to his Son "I would say, in justice to my own sentiments, that not one of those zealots for a Protestant interest wishes more sincerely than I do, perhaps not half so sincerely, for the support of the Established Church in both these Kingdoms. It is a great link towards holding fast the connection of Religion with the State, and for keeping these two islands in a close connection of opinion and affection. I wish it well as the religion of the greater numbers of the land proprietors of the Kingdom, with whom all establishments of Church and State, for strong political reasons, ought, in my opinion, to be warmly connected. I wish it well because it is more closely combined than any other of the Church systems with the Crown, which is the stay of the mixed Constitution; because it is, as things now stand, the sole connecting political principle between the Constitutions of the two Kingdoms. I have another, and infinitely a stronger reason for wishing it well—it is that, at the present lime, I consider it one of the main pillars of the Christian religion itself. … Its fall would leave a great void, which nothing else of which I can form any distinct idea might fill." Letter "This is a state of things which no man in his senses can call perfectly happy. But it is the state of Ireland. Two hundred years of experiment show it to be unalterable. Many a fierce struggle has passed between the parties. The result is—you cannot make the people Protestant, and they cannot shake off a Protestant Government. This is what experience teaches, and what all men of sense, of all descriptions, know," 1210
 SIR JAMES STRONGE  said, as repre-presenting one of the largest Protestant constituencies in Ulster, he felt bound to enter his humble protest against the measure brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman. Insinuations had been made against the loyalty of Orangemen.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to explain. What he said was, that there were hon. Members below the Bar creating a disturbance.
 SIR JAMES STRONGE : The Protestants of Ulster were invited to settle in that country, and their rights were guaranteed to them by the most solemn contracts. Had they not performed their part of these contracts? The Irish Church had for 300 years been in uninterrupted possession, guaranteed by Acts of Parliament, of her endowments, and it was with alarm, and he might say disgust, that the Protestants of Ireland contemplated this revolutionary movement, which would shake all confidence in the security of property. It was alleged that the Roman Catholics of Ireland looked upon the Established Church as a badge of conquest. That he denied. He had resided in Ireland the greater part of his life; he had bad many opportunities of knowing the sentiments of the people, and though he had often heard them speak of the repeal of the Union and the land question, he had never heard them utter a complaint on the subject of the Church Establishment. It should not be forgotten that nearly 300 years ago a great number of persons who professed the Reformed Faith had been induced to settle in Ireland on the faith that their rights would be protected. They had performed their part of the contract, and it was for this country to abide by hers. The measure of the right hon. Gentleman would not bring peace to Ireland; on the contrary, it would intensify those feelings of religious and political hostility which unhappily prevailed there. The principle of this measure, before many years had passed, would be applied to England and Scotland. He hoped that this great wrong would not be sanctioned by Parliament, that the feelings of the Protestants of Ireland, who were industrious, peaceable, and loyal, might be respected, and that those religious institutions to which they were so deeply attached might be left to them unimpaired.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I will not detain the House for more than a very few moments; but I think it due to the deep respect which I feel for my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Lefroy) to give a precise answer to the question he has put to me. That question, as I understand it, was whether I entertain the same views with respect to Wales, or rather, whether I think that my arguments with respect to the Church in Ireland do not extend to the Church in Wales. I must frankly say I do not. I will not enter into any detailed argument at this unseasonable moment on the case of Wales, because it is quite enough for me to refer to a speech made by my hon. Friend the Member for Cardiganshire (Sir Thomas Lloyd) in which he showed in a very satisfactory manner the very broad distinctions which prevailed between the two cases. So far as I am concerned, I hope I have answered my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin explicitly. But I will go one step further, and ask my hon. Friend—what I know he may find it difficult to do—to believe me when I tell him that I am assured that the measure which we propose—I do not mean merely the Suspensory Bill—and which has been sanctioned in this House by such large majorities, is not in the nature of a blow and discouragement, but is truly and really for the benefit of the religion to which my hon. Friend is so much attached.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as the Head of the Government was not then in the House, he should withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  proposed an extra clause: that the right of any person to a share in the future Maynooth Grant or the  Regium Donum
 MB, GOSCHEN  said, he did not rise to
 1215 1216 1217
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he should be very happy to treat privately with his hon. Friend with respect to the sale of this colonnade. He was already in communication with his hon. Friend the
 1184
 MR. AYRTON  said, that nearly two years ago he called the attention of the late Government to the great confusion into which the finances of the Metropolitan Board had fallen, and a Committee of that House was appointed to inquire into the subject. The members of the Committee were struck with the great recklessness which bad been exhibited in preparing estimates for works, the cost in some instances being double the amount calculated on. It was also found that since the establishment of the Board various other local duties had been imposed upon them, and that the Board in its present constitution was unfit for the discharge of its various duties. The Committee reported, and when an attempt was made to carry their Report into effect they were met by the objection, fairly enough, he was willing to admit, that they had proposed to deal with the finances of the Board, and not with the Board itself. The Committee proceeded to consider how the Board could be re-constituted so as to gain the confidence of the metropolis, and a scheme was proposed by which there might be brought into it men of a higher scale of intelligence and character. That Report might also have engaged the attention of the Government; but, considering the great questions in hand last Session, it was not, perhaps, to be expected that they could undertake a measure for the metro-
 1220
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the circumstance that the daughters of Seamen killed or disabled in the service of the Country do not enjoy the privilege of maintenance and education at Greenwich Hospital.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  wished to call the attention of the First Commissioner of Works to an advertisement which, to his great surprise he read in  The Times
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  reminded the House that advances for metropolitan improvements had been sanctioned by three separate Acts — the first, in 1862, authorizing the Northern Embankment; the second, in 1863, authorizing the Southern Embankment; and the third, in the same year, having for its object the improvement of Mansion House Street. The original gross estimate for the first work was, in round numbers, £2,500,000; for the second, a little over £1,000,000; and for the third, £1,300,000 —the total being £4,935,000. A great part of that sum was expected to be recouped by the sale of lands; and in 1864 an Act was passed guaranteeing a loan to the amount of £2,480,000, the net sum which it was thought would be required. The responsibility for the estimate for the first work rested with the Office of Works, the Bill being in charge of the First Commissioner, but the execution of the improvement being intrusted to the Metropolitan Board of Works. It was decided when the Bill was in Committee that nearly all the reclaimed land should be devoted to public purposes, part of the expected assets being thus sacrificed. The compensations for water frontages had far exceeded the original estimate; and with regard to the Southern Embankment, whereas the Metropolitan Board asked for borrowing powers for £700,000, the House reduced the sum to £480,000; while, with regard to the Mansion House Street improvement, the Board had purchased additional lands in order to avoid claims for compensation, and the estimate had thus been exceeded. The present estimate for the three works was £5,568,000, showing an excess of £633,000, half that amount being attributed to the additional purchases of land in Mansion House Street, which were regarded as a profitable investment, and the other half to the excess in compensation for water frontages. The Board had received £3,729,000, nearly all which had been expended, with the exception of £157,000, and the sum required to complete the works, in addi-
 1213 1214
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, we go into Committee on Monday next on the Boundary Bill, and then the Members of the Committee will have an opportunity of giving the reasons which induced them to adopt the recommendation which they have offered to the acceptance of the House, ant! I shall listen to those reasons with much interest.
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Meath, Whether, at a recent meeting of Roman Catholic prelates, presided over by Archbishop Manning, it was decided that, in the present state of public feeling in this Country, it would be inexpedient to proceed with the Bill for the repeal of the Ecclesiastical Titles Act; and, whether, in consequence, he is now in a position to state what course he will pursue, with respect to the Bill in question?
 MR. SEELY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, When the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the present system of management of Greenwich Hospital and Schools (which was laid upon the Table of the House on the 19th of May last) will be in the hands of Members?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought that the noble Lord ought to have given a more serious answer. He did not believe the intention of the Government to knock down to the highest bidder the colonnade of Burlington House had been stated in that House.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If the Circular relating to Officers in Command of Depots, issued last year, is to extend to those Officers in Command before that Circular was issued from the Horse Guards?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : The bimonthly as well as monthly Mail will he embarked and disembarked at Plymouth as soon as the new Contract is brought into operation.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, that the proposal of the right lion. Gentleman would be very advantageous to the ratepayers of the metropolis, because the money required by the Metropolitan Board of Works would be borrowed at a much easier rate of interest on the security of the Government. But, however agreeable this process of obtaining a Government guarantee might be, he thought it well the public and Board should understand it was one that must not be too often resorted to. He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had any objection so to amend the Bill as to define the object for which the £650,000 was to be borrowed, to cause the £350,000 to be re-paid which had already been borrowed, and also to cause the remaining portion of the money which was to be guaranteed under the Bill to be faithfully applied to the completion of the works in Mansion House Street. He understood the Secretary to the Treasury to have undertaken to bring up a clause to that effect.
 MR. MORRISON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether there is any objection to the bi-monthly, as well as the monthly Mail for the Cape of Good Hope, being embarked and disembarked in the port of Plymouth?
 MR. TITE  said, he entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken that the item of £285,000 should be added to the same guarantee, as it. would enable the Board to borrow the money without difficulty, and at a low rate of interest. He had endeavoured to induce the Government to consent to this, but had failed, because the Chan-
 1218 1219
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I find, on inquiry, that no circular of the nature referred to by the hon. and gallant Member, was issued last year; and I presume that the circular to which the Question
 1181
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he did not recollect having made any such promise as that referred to in the Question of the noble Lord. When the Army Estimates were moved, he entered into a full statement of the changes which were intended in the War Department; but the details were not yet completed, and therefore he could not lay them upon the table of the House. As regarded the Audit Department, only one alteration had been made, and that was the transfer of the Department from the Assistant Under Secretary to the Parliamentary Under Secretary. The regulations, however, were not yet complete; but when they were, he would have no objection to lay them upon the table.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must repeat that he did not recollect hav-
 1183
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, If the statement contained in an article in the  Army and Navy Gazette 1223
 MR. CORRY : Sir, I have myself examined the Papers laid before the Law Officers in 1862, and I can say that there is not the slightest foundation for the statement that the opinion of the Law Officers was formed on a falsified copy of the Order in Council of 1851. On the contrary, the Order in Council of 1851 was laid  in extenso verbatim et literatim,
 MR. GRAHAM : Sir, I cannot allow this clause to pass without renewing my earnest protest against the principle which it embodies. It was, however, not to be expected that the Government would treat a constituency so thoroughly Liberal as Glasgow with any great favour—scarcely even with fairness. The City of Glasgow has, in reality, been denied its legitimate share in the increased representation given to Scotland. In proportion to the whole representation of Scotland, Glasgow was fully entitled to nine Members; and in view of the burgh population of Scotland alone, it might claim ten. With reference to the representation of the large boroughs of England, Glasgow is at least entitled to five Members. Rela-
 1232 1233
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not know whether it would be necessary to have Boundary Commissioners for Scotland; and if it were regular he should wish to have that clause still further postponed until the Committee had gone through the schedule.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he had on several occasions drawn the attention of the Government to this important subject. His own opinion had been that these Commissioners might have been appointed and might have proceeded with their labours pending the passing of the Reform Bill through Parliament. This had not been done; but he thought the subject too important to be lost sight of altogether. He gave the learned Lord Advocate notice that when they came to the question of Glasgow he should certainly desire to lay before the House the reasons why he thought the boundaries of that borough would require mature consideration. He would, however, in the meantime acquiesce in the proposal of the Government.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, there was no wish on the part of the Government to avoid having recourse to a Boundary Commission; and if it were deemed requisite he should be prepared to nominate certain gentlemen as Commissioners. It might, however, be the best course to
 1234
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that some of the boundaries in Scotland required rectification.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  next moved to insert the following clause after Clause 1:—
 (Application of Act.) "2. This Act shall apply to Scotland only, except in so far as it provides that certain boroughs in England shall cease to return Members to serve in Parliament,"
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  brought up a clause (Lodger Franchise for voters in Burghs) which he proposed to insert after Clause 3—
 (Lodger franchise for voters in burghs.) 4. Every man shall in and after the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight, be entitled to be registered as a voter, and, when registered, to vote for a member or members to serve in Parliament for a burgh, who is qualified as follows (that is to say):—
 
 1. Is of full age and not subject to any legal incapacity; and 2. As a lodger has occupied in the same burgh separately, and as sole tenant for the twelve months preceding the last day of July in any year the same lodgings, such lodgings being part of one and the same dwelling-house, and of a clear yearly value, if let unfurnished, of ten pounds or upwards; and 3. Has resided in such lodgings during the twelve months immediately preceding the last day of July, and has claimed to be registered as a voter at the next ensuing registration of voters.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the clause would have the effect of restricting the existing lodger franchise in Scotland, as lodgers occupying premises at £10 a year had, in the majority of cases, been held to be entitled to a vote.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had stated his own opinion to be favourable to the view adopted by the majority of the sheriffs—namely, that lodgers occupying premises which, without reference to furniture, brought £10 rent per annum, were at present entitled to be put upon the register. He had taken this clause from the very words of the English Act, with the view, not of excluding from the franchise any
 1235
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he thought the words requiring a continuous residence "in the same lodgings," would have a disfranchising effect.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, that if it was not the intention of the Government to interfere with the lodger franchise existing under the old law, that intention should he more clearly expressed than it was in the clause.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he hoped that the operation of the clause would not he to disfranchise persons who, as matters now stood, were entitled to vote.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  pointed out that it would have no such effect, inasmuch as in the 48th section of the Bill (General Saving Clause) it was distinctly declared that the new franchises to be conferred by it were not in substitution for, but in addition to, the old franchises.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the clause would have the effect of disfranchising persons who had a vote, because in Scotland lodgers were treated as householders. Some of the sheriffs had held that lodgers were not included in the Reform Act of 1832, but the majority held that they were.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that in the English Bill the lodger franchise was made to be dependent on the occupation of the same lodgings, and he did not know any reason why that principle should not apply to Scotland. There would be a difficulty in identifying a lodger for the purposes of the franchise unless he occupied the same lodgings.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that if some such; Amendment as that which he had moved were not adopted the result would be the disfranchisement in many cases of persons in Scotland who now enjoyed the right of voting. The case of England was entirely different, because in England no lodger
 1236
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, that according to the present law in Scotland, a lodger occupying premises of the required value successively was entitled to vote. It was proposed by the clause under discussion, however, that in order to be so entitled a man must occupy the "same" premises; and he should like to know which of those two regulations was to prevail in the future.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, the two provisions clearly clashed.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was afraid that he had been the means of leading the Lord Advocate into the labyrinth in which he found himself; but he would suggest, as a solution of the difficulty, the bringing up on the Report of a declaratory clause providing that the law under the old Act should apply to the new £10 lodgers.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that as the Government had no intention to disfranchise any of those electors who had hitherto enjoyed the right to vote, he had no objection to any alteration in the clause being made which might be deemed necessary to secure that right.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he thought the Lord Advocate would feel that the matter was so trifling as not to be worth wasting time about.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he wished to know whether persons who were exempted by the parochial Boards would be placed in a position of disadvantage as compared with others in having to recover their privilege of voting through a process of appeal, which he presumed would be somewhat expensive.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the clause gave the only remedy possible. Under the Poor Law Act, the parochial Boards had power to exempt persons from the payment of poor rates on the ground of poverty only; but it was too often the practice of the Boards to exempt whole classes under a certain rental for the pur-
 1237
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he thought that great confusion would arise from the proposed clause. Many nice and difficult questions would crop up immediately after the first registration, and every sheriff might vary in his decision on these points, If the parochial Boards had not the power to exempt from payment of rates all occupiers under a certain low rental they ought to have it, for the amount collected would not be worth the cost and trouble of collection.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the clause was useful as far as it went, but he was of opinion that parochial Boards should not have the power to exempt whole classes. The Poor Law Guardians who were assessed at a high figure could not be expected to have much sympathy with the poorer classes. He would suggest the expediency of withdrawing the proposed clause and bringing up a new one on the Report, for the rule with regard to the exemption from the payment of rates varied in the Scotch burghs.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  proposed a new clause to follow Clause 20 (Alteration of Dates respecting Register) the object of which was to alter certain dates in the preparation of the Register of Voters in burghs as provided by the 19 & 20  Vict.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he wished to know how it would be possible to do all the work in the time which was to be allotted?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to know why they could not let the registration commence on the 15th of August, and finish so much earlier?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he anticipated that the register would be completed before the sheriff by the 31st of October. The arrangement had been made not on his own responsibility, but after consulting the parties who would be engaged in the completion of the register for Glasgow and Edinburgh. They could not undertake to complete it earlier than the day named. He had heard from Edin-
 1238
 MR. MONCREIFF  suggested that the appeal should be dispensed with altogether for this year, to enable registration to occur more rapidly.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he thought the process might have been still further expedited by requiring the Judges of the Supreme Court to sit on the 16th of October as an appeal court. There would be very few appeals.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that a clause had been introduced expressly with the view, if necessary, of the court appointing Judges to meet during the vacation for the purpose of disposing of registration appeals.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he proposed to insert a series of new clauses having reference to elections for the Universities. He moved that Clause A (Franchise for Universities) be inserted before Clause 37 as follows:—
 "Every person whose name is for the time being on the register, made up in terms of the provisions hereinafter set forth, of the General Council of any one of the Universities of Scotland shall, if of full age, and not subject to any legal incapacity, be entitled to vote in the election of a Member to serve in any future Parliament for such University in terms of this Act."
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not think this at all necessary, and it would interpose considerable difficulties in the way of the University franchise. It would require that they should furnish to each elector a diploma—[Mr. WALDERGRAVELESLIE: Certificate.] Well, a certificate, stating his name and residence. I hardly think that is required. It will be enough to know the voter's residence at the time
 1239
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  proposed a new clause (Clause B, Qualifications for Members of General Councils).
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he wished to have some general explanation of these clauses.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought his right hon. and learned Friend was pretty well in possession of the terms of the clauses, of which he had given him a copy some days before placing them on the Notice Paper. The clauses had also been adjusted with the approval of the Universities. The only point on which he thought any question could arise was that as to the delivery of voting papers.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he did not intend to make any complaint as to want of notice; but the clauses were considerably involved. Did his right hon. and learned Friend intend to adhere to the whole of these clauses, or would he adopt the Amendment of which he (Mr. Moncreiff) had given notice?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that although the practice was to take Amendments on each clause as they arose, he had no objection to say he would adopt the Amendment of his right hon. and learned Friend. The time provided for the completion of registration in all other cases was the 31st of October; but it so happened that an election of some interest—namely, that of the Chancellor of the University of Edinburgh, would occur on the 30th of October. The Statutory Council would meet on that day, and the proposition of his right hon. and learned Friend was that the register should for that purpose be completed by the 25th of October. Now this was certainly going a little out of the way from the ordinary course; but he had no objection to adopt the Amendment that the registration should be completed by the 21st of October, instead of the 28th, and be authenticated by the Vice Chancellor on the 25th instead of the 31st of October. It had been suggested that this postponement should be continued in future years; but from communications he had received, he was led to believe that such an alteration would be extremely inconvenient to the University authorities.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he could sea no reason at all why an election, which did not depend upon the same framework or machinery, should he obliged to follow the same practice as others. There could be no difficulty in making up the register at any period.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the University elections took place in October, whereas the register would not be completed till November. He thought it desirable that the election should take place when the register was fresh, rather than when it was exhausted, or about to expire. It would be better either that the registration should be completed earlier, or that the elections should be delayed till November.
 MR. MONCREIFF  thanked the Lord Advocate for having accepted part of his suggestion, but was at a loss to know why, in future years also, the register could not be made up in October instead of November.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had received a communication that day from a gentleman who took an interest in these matters; and he was led to infer that there would be some difficulty in the preparation in October for elections in the month of November. The registrar would be employed in making up the register in the month of October; and his attention would be disturbed if a poll was demanded, and he had to issue circulars. There were different dates for the meetings of the Councils. In Aberdeen and in Edinburgh those meetings were held at any period in October; in Glasgow, in the last week in October, or the first in November; and in St. Andrews, in November. This, however, was a matter which might be allowed to remain over until the Report of the Committee was brought up, which would give time for further consideration.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the Bill, as originally framed, contained no such provision as the one under consideration. It was, however, thought better to assimilate the system of voting in the Scotch Universities to that which prevailed in the English Universities, and the provisions existing in England with regard to voting papers were adopted in the lump. He would remind the Committee that last year the principle embodied in the clause. He now proposed was applied to the London University, which has no resident students, and where the constituency is, perhaps, less; connected with the University than the students of the Scotch Universities are with their Universities; but he was inclined to think that, probably, it would not be necessary to require that the Member of the Council presenting the voting paper should be personally acquainted with the voter by whom it had been signed. As there was no desire to cause any inconvenience to the voter, he was willing to alter the clause to that effect. He thought it, however, desirable that the wording of the clause should be retained so far as it required that the voting paper should be personally delivered and attested by a Member of the Council.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE,  while accepting as sufficient the Amendment offered by the learned Lord, wished, from his personal experience, to support the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill.) The system of voting by proxy papers for the Universities
 1242
 MR. J. STUART MILL  asked, whether the delivery of the voting paper by a Member of Council would not involve a considerable additional expense?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  assured the hon. Gentleman that be had learned from persons of experience that this was the best arrangement that could be adopted.
 MR. LOWE  said, he could see no security against the presentation of fraudulent voting papers.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  reminded the right hon. Gentleman that the Member of the Council who presented the voting paper would have to sign his name at the back and express his belief in the authenticity of the voter's signature.
 MR. LOWE  said, he considered that that was really no security.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  observed that, the voting paper would be signed before a justice of the peace. That would be an additional security.
 MR. LOWE  said, there might be no such justice of the peace as the one whose name was on the voting paper. A man might take the list and set to work to manufacture votes without the knowledge of the voters.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I hope no candidate for a University will demean himself by having recourse to such pro-
 1243
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that it was desirable to have perfect security, but we could not always get that, and must be content with an approximate system. The punishment for the personation of voters was found on the whole to be sufficient.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the question was not one of candidates or electors, but of entire strangers, whose forgery it would be impossible to punish because it would be impossible to detect it, so that the mere fact that the person, if discovered, could be prosecuted was no security whatever.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the paper was to be signed by another voter pledging himself to its genuineness. It was to be supposed that a person tendering a voting paper would inquire where it came from, because if he did not, and it was fraudulent, he would first of all be exposed to the obloquy that would attach to the Act, and next to a legal penalty.
 MR. MONCREIFF  remarked that the fabrication of votes would be a very dangerous game to play, for how was the fabricator to know that the real voter would not send in his paper also?
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that many operations took place on the same security—namely, that if persons committed frauds they would be prosecuted.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he had now to discharge an extremely painful duty—namely, to propose that seven of the smallest English boroughs should be disfranchised, in order to provide additional seats for Scotland. As his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate felt somewhat unwilling to move the extinction of the borough which had sent him to Parliament, that duty had fallen upon him (Sir James Fergusson). It was absolutely necessary that additional seats should be provided for Scotland; and he thought the Committee would admit that seven was the smallest number that could be given. As a
 1244 (Certain boroughs in England to cease to return Members.) "Whereas, in order to provide for the seats hereinbefore distributed, it is expedient that certain boroughs in England having small populations should cease to return Members to serve in Parliament, Be it therefore Enacted, That from and after the end of this present Parliament the boroughs of Arundel, Ashburton, Dartmouth, Honiton, Lyme Regis, Thetford, and Wells shall respectively cease to return any Member to serve in Parliament."
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, that it had never before been proposed to disfranchise a county town, and he contended that an exception from that rule should not be made in the case of Wells, where, without wishing to exaggerate its importance as a city, the business of the county was transacted, and the sessions and assizes are held. He would fain have stopped here; but as it had been resolved to rob the English Peter to pay the Scotch Paul, he was bound to point out a substitute for Wells. He accordingly pointed to Evesham. The population of Evesham exceeded that of Wells by only thirty-two, and did so only because Wells constituted a small area of 700 acres, while Evesham extended over 2,338 acres. Again, if Wells were disfranchised the new division of mid-Somersetshire would be the only county constituency in England possessing no represented town within it; although Somersetshire had 1,000,000 more in population than Worcestershire, which boasted of three represented boroughs in each division. He would also remark that the rental of Wells's small area was £40,000, and of Evesham's large area but £21,000. Under these circumstances, he moved that Evesham be substituted for Wells.
 CAPTAIN HAYTER  said, he should not have felt warranted in interfering in this discussion had it not been for the principle laid down by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), and endorsed by the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), that representation ought to be taken from the over-represented and not from under-represented counties. The proportion of representation to population was already loss in Somersetshire than in Worcestershire, and if Wells were disfranchised the disparity would he still further increased. The Customs Returns of Wells, moreover, were nearly double those of Evesham. The proposal was of necessity an invidious one to make; but if any borough were to be sacrificed, it ought not to be a county town like Wells.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he could not allow this clause to pass without entering his solemn protest against the whole proceeding. It was his opinion that a greater breach of faith had never been committed.
 THE CHAIRMAN  called the hon. Baronet to Order, and reminded him that the question before the Committee was to omit Wells and insert Evesham.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, that as it had pleased the House to condone that breach of faith, it was the business of the Committee to select the boroughs to be disfranchised. Wells had been selected because it happened that by the last Census it fell short of the number required. That was a most unfair line to draw. The importance of a town did not depend on the number of the inhabitants within it, but on its wealth and position, and whether it was surrounded by a large and wealthy neighbourhood. Wells was the centre of a large agricultural district; it was a cathedral town of great antiquity, and held a very prominent place in history. In fact, Wells was amongst the last towns that ought to have been disfranchised. The whole proposal was so unjust to England that he was not sorry that it was to be consummated by selecting a borough which had the greatest claim to preserve and retain its representation.
 COLONEL BOURNE  said, that Evesham was not a decreasing borough. The population of the borough had greatly increased of late years. Another fact that had not been laid before the Committee was that, out of the ten boroughs originally named to be disfranchised, Evesham was one of the few that was really an increasing bo-
 1246
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, there was so little to choose between the two boroughs that the Committee ought not only to refuse to strike Wells out, bul also ought to add Evesham to the list.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, they were in so much hurry last year to carry a Reform Bill, that they refused to consider many of the details connected with the subject. In disfranchising boroughs regard ought to be had to the character of the constituency, the associations and intellectual and moral condition of the town, and the number of the electors, and not to the number of the population alone. The principle of selecting boroughs for disfranchisement because they happened to have below 5,000 inhabitants was shamefully unjust. It was unjust to take the last Census Returns. The borough of Calne escaped disfranchisement by the mere fact of the nominal extension of the bounds of the borough, whereby the population just exceeded the hard and fast line that had been drawn. The constituency of Calne was the smallest of any borough in England except Arundel, and was inadequate to entitle the borough to be represented in that House. It could not he contended that Calne, with 175 electors, had an equal claim to representation with an ancient cathedral town and county town like Well, with 274. There was no reason why Scotland should rob England to increase her representation, and he complained that what was proposed was unjust towards England. The representation of Ireland could ba made to show an equal demand for increased representation. There was no reason why the right hon. Gentleman, who had been an obsequious imitator of the right hon. Gentleman on the other side, should support the present proposal. With that sublime facility with which he answered questions, the right hon. Gentleman told him (Mr. Darby Griffith) last year that he looked to Providence to supply the new scats for Scotland. [Mr. DISRAELI: No!] The right hon. Gentleman's subsequent memory certainly did modify many of his expressions as understood at the time they were uttered. He hoped the sense of the Committee would be taken on the question.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he thought the Committee had got into a very unpleasant
 1247
 COLONEL SYKES  said, it appeared from statistics that Evesham had increased since 1861, and Wells had not.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, that with reference to a remark of the hon. Member for East Somerset (Mr. Neville-Grenville) he would remind the Committee that a county town, Lancaster, was disfranchised last Session.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he thought that in getting seven seats Scotland got quite enough; but as the House had passed an Instruction to disfranchise ten boroughs, he would be for carrying out that Resolution and keeping three of the seats in reserve for allocation hereafter. He would vote for the disfranchisement of Evesham, if possible. He wished to ask whether it was not out of Order to disfranchise a less number of boroughs than was named in the Instruction to the Committee.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the Instruction as worded gave the Committee a discretionary power to deal with boroughs under a certain population. The Committee had therefore power to disfranchise all, some, or none of them.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he would not have spoken a word on this subject had it not been for the remarks made by Gentlemen on the other side, who had spoken in a very harsh way of Scotland. He protested against the word "robbery." Scotland had been badly used in having got so few Members. He might tell hon. Members that Scotland felt no gratitude whatever for this concession, because she felt she had received no favour.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the hon. Member for East Somerset (Mr. Neville-Grenville) had naturally raised this question, and as he had put it forward they must endeavour to form an opinion upon it. The hon. Member for Ayrshire (Sir James Fergusson) had truly observed that hitherto the House had dealt with population; but he must allow him (Mr. Gladstone) to observe, what materially qualified the force of his argument, that they had adopted population in dealing with a class of boroughs, and never, that he recollected, in the case of one borough
 1248
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that from his knowledge of Evesham, and his connection with the county, he was able to correct what the right hon. Gentleman had stated with regard to that borough, and to inform him that Evesham had not a scattered rural population, but that it was a regularly built town, with numerous streets; and houses. Although Evesham had not, like Wells, a cathedral, it possessed one of the most beautiful abbey-churches in England.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, we have arrived at a stage on this great question of Parliamentary Reform when I think a final decision is absolutely necessary. The hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith) is of opinion that this business of the reconstruction of our electoral system has been hurried over; but I must remind the Committee that we are now at nearly the end of the second Session during which this question has been constantly under discussion. We have considered it for two years, and I think the whole subject has been as well considered as a practical nation could consider a question on which legislation could not be indefinitely postponed. No doubt if we were to spend fifty years in devising a new electoral system we should arrive at a more perfect system than the one before us; but we; must remember that we have the advantage of the practical enjoyment of the results we have achieved, which otherwise we should not have. The hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) complains of the manner in which Scotland has been treated. I am under a very different impression on that point. I am not conscious that I have; considered with any want of feeling the claims of Scotland; I must say that I am surprised, and, on the whole, gratified at the results which, in the interests of Scotland, have been achieved; and I think that Scotch Members must be unreasonable if they are not satisfied too. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) is not only dissatisfied—he is indignant; and the fact that the Bill only proposes to give seven additional Members to Scotland is one which almost exhausts his powers in giving sufficient expression to his discontent. Considering, however, that the right hon. Gentleman was once in a very responsible position in this House and then brought forward a Reform Bill in which he only proposed an addition of seven Members to the representation of Scotland, I think the
 1250
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he hoped that, after all, Arundel would be excluded from the list of towns to be disfranchised. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) that the question ought not to be determined entirely by numbers. There was a maxim in law,  De minimus non curat lex
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the part of the Resolution in which Arundel appeared had already been passed.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that the plans of the Government had been altered in an extraordinary way, and that only two days' notice bad been given to Members. He must ask that the Schedule might be postponed till the Report, to enable him to communicate with his constituents in Lanarkshire, and to give them an opportunity of considering the matter.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, on the Thursday before the Recess, he gave a distinct intimation that it was his intention to include in the Parliamentary limits of Glasgow, a district which belonged to the municipality of Glasgow. He hoped a decision would be at once come to with regard to this question.
 MR. MONCREIFF  appealed to the Government not to proceed with this Schedule until the general question of the extension of boundaries, which had been referred to the Select Committee, should come on for decision by the House. If the boundaries of Birmingham and other large towns in England were not to be extended, there was no reason why those of Glasgow should.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the cases were not similar, because the Select Committee had considered only the boundaries of the particular boroughs that had been referred to them. The magistrates and town council of Glasgow were desirous of having the boundaries extended.
 MR. ELLICE  said, that it was all very well to say that the city of Glasgow was in favour of the extension. The reason of that was because the town council wanted to extend the area of taxation. No doubt, they would gladly bring the whole county within the borough. If the Committee were to consent to the Motion they would do not only a great injustice, but would perpetrate a monstrous job. By taking away so many voters from the county and
 1252
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he should vote for the proposal of the Government on the ground that it would enfranchise 7,000 or 8,000 persons who would not otherwise have a vote. Partick and Govan were really part of Glasgow.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he thought the question should he decided without regard to the treatment of boundaries in England.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he hoped the Government would deal with them on the principle that what was good for England was good for Scotland. Crowded meetings of the inhabitants of Partick and Govan had unanimously petitioned against incorporation with Glasgow. Unless constituted a separate constituency they preferred remaining in the counties. Against the petitions on the table they had only the statement of the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Dalglish), the authorities of which cared only for having more people to tax.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he hoped the Government would consent to postponement.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he could understand opposition to the proposal on the part of owners and persons having county votes; but he believed the working men, who were small householders, of Partick and Govan were anxious to be annexed to Glasgow, and would be much disappointed if the boon were denied them. In had been stated that the border towns were indifferent to their formation into a group of burghs; but enthusiastic meetings had been held since the adoption of the proposal in order to express their gratitude to Parliament for the privilege conferred upon them.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that if this argument was correct the suburbs of Glasgow ought to have a representative to themselves. But because they did not choose to give to the population of these considerable places a representative in this House, to which they were justly entitled, were they to deprive those who were county electors of a vote which they valued in order to give to others a vote which would scarcely be of any value.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I wish to refer in the first instance to what has been said by the hon. Baronet (Sir James Fergusson). He
 1253
 MR. GORST  said, that the argument of the hon. Member for Birmingham was a false one, because it proceeded upon the
 1254
 MR. BRIGHT : The hon. Member has stated that my argument is a false one. I should like him to prove it.
 MR. GORST  said, that he had used the term in no offensive sense, but he desired to point out that hon. Members opposite assumed that the municipal boundaries of boroughs should in all cases follow the Parliamentary boundaries; and they seemed very anxious, for purposes of their own, to make the country believe that generally his was the case. He would mention two instances which would show that this was far from being invariably so. The first was that of Manchester, which was incorporated since this Reform Act of 1832. The people of that city, in choosing their municipal boundary, chose one considerably within the Parliamentary boundary, and including only about two-thirds of the area. The other was that of the large borough of Darlington, incorporated since the passing of the Reform Act of last year. So little had the inhabitants been impressed with the necessity of having their Parliamentary and municipal boundaries conterminous, that, having before them the boundary settled last year by the Reform Act, they chose for the municipal boundary one of only half that area.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he believed that the real object of the Government was not to give the franchise to the artizans in these districts, but to take this Liberal portion of the constituency out of the comity and to attach it to Glasgow. The object of the corporation of Glasgow, on the other hand, was to get these people assessed to the municipal taxes.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he thought that the question ought to be left to be decided by the locality.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, the question appeared to him to be whether the Members for Glasgow should represent the city as it now existed, or a portion of it, which had been the nucleus of the present city? He wished to ask the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), who contended that it would be no boon to these people to be included within the Parliamentary boundary, whether he could deny that by being enclosed many hundreds would obtain votes for Members of Parliament who would otherwise have no voice in the election of a representative?
 MR. CANDLISH  said, the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Gorst) was by no
 1255
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, there were two questions involved in the Schedule. The first was whether the boundary of Glasgow should remain to a certain extent co-extensive with the Royal or municipal borough. As to that, he understood there could he no opposition from the other side of the House, because he believed it was an axiom with them that Parliamentary and municipal boundaries ought to be co-extensive. Yet the effect of negativing the Schedule would be to preclude the extension of the existing Parliamentary boundary to the existing municipal boundary; for there was a portion of the Royalty not included within the present Parliamentary boundary. The second question was, whether the boundary should be extended so as to include the submits of Partick and Govan; which, though each of them had a police government of its own, were really parts of Glasgow. [''No, no!"] Practically speaking they were. He could quite understand the sensitiveness of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) with reference to the proposed enlargement; because the borough of Birmingham was in a similar position, and the hon. Member wished the decision of the Committee upon this question to influence the decision upon the case of Birmingham. With regard to the imputations the hon. Member had thrown upon the Government, they were accustomed to such imputations. He thought, however, they might have been spared. The hon. Member constantly made the assumption that he was actuated by the purest motives. He (the Lord Advocate) had yet to learn that imputations could be launched indiscriminately against the Ministerial side of the House; certainly the hon. Member was about the
 1256
 THE EARL OF MAYO  replied, that there was no truth in the statement referred to. It having, however, been made upon oath before a public functionary at New York, he wished in justice to Mr. Anderson to read a letter which that gentleman had addressed to him. It was as; follows:—
 "Law Department, Dublin Castle, May 30, 1868. "My Lord,—Referring to the article in this days's  Nation alias "I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's obedient Servant, SAMUEL LEE ANDERSON, "The Right Hon. the Chief Secretary, &c., Dublin Castle." 1230
 MR. VERNER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he has seen a statement in the newspaper of the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Sir John Gray) to the effect that the British Government had ample knowledge of the fact that the unfortunate man who had attempted to assassinate the Duke of Edinburgh was not only insane at the time, but had been insane for a considerable period previously; and, whether any steps will be taken to guard the peasantry of Ireland against the circulation of such scandalous libels?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that in the Report by Mr. Scudamore, which had been laid upon the table, a good deal was said about the telegraphs in Belgium and Switzerland. He should like to know whether the Government had any information regarding the telegraphs in the United States, which were on a much more extensive scale than in those small countries, and regarding which a great deal of experience might be obtained, enabling the House to determine the questions raised in the Bill?
 MR. STOPFORD  said, he regretted the Committee had to deal with two rival Reports from bodies of undoubted authority. He would confess he had been somewhat dismayed and disappointed by the Report of the Committee, because it re-opened the whole question of boundaries, and had not shrunk from raising points unanimously settled by the House last year. One would have thought that respecting the general principle of the extension of boundaries the House and the Government, the Commissioners and the Committee, would all have been in accord; but the Report of the Commissioners, which had been based in every case upon careful local inquiry, was entirely upset by the Report of the Committee, as far as the boroughs were concerned. Much stress had of late been laid on the value of local inquiry in the matter of bribery, and so highly did some hon. Members esteem it that they were prepared to relinquish control over cases of contested elections, if by that sacrifice local inquiry could be secured. Notwithstanding this, however, the Committee threw the whole of those patient local inquiries to the winds, and came to entirely different conclusions. As far as he understood it, the Committee's Report was based on these grounds, that municipal and Parliamentary boroughs should be conterminous; that boroughs should not be unduly extended so as to consist of an overwhelming number of Members; and that there should be a community of interest between the boroughs as at present constituted and the suburbs it was proposed to add to them. With respect to the first point, he contended that inasmuch as Parliament had not expressed an opinion on the subject last year it was now too late for the Committee to lay down any such principle. But, setting this aside, he at least expected of the Members of the Committee that they would be consistent, but he found they recommended the extension of the boundaries of several boroughs, and among these was Northampton, the Parliamentary and municipal boundaries of which would not be conterminous if the Report were adopted. The Committee also endorsed the recommendations of the Commissioners respecting Bolton, Chester, and Windsor, that the area of these boroughs should be extended by the addition of certain of their suburbs; so that in these cases the Parliamentary and municipal borough would no longer be conterminous. The objection that boroughs would become unwieldy by the addition of
 1272 1273
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I think that the preliminary discussion now taking place—though it may appear to occupy more time than is desirable—will be very advantageous. The Committee is at a very great disadvantage in not having the privilege of hearing the opinion of the Government, and especially the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, for on him will depend probably the decision whether we must go through the whole of
 1274
 THE CHAIRMAN : The right hon. Gentleman is not in Order in reading newspaper extracts from reports of debates in the House during the present Session.
 MR. BRIGHT : I do not in the least contest the explanation the right hon. Gentleman has offered; but I appeal to the House, and I may even appeal to hon. Gentlemen opposite, whether the impression conveyed to the House at the time the Committee was appointed was not that the Government would be disposed to receive with confidence, and as a final decision, that which should be determined upon by the Committee? In all cases of this kind, the House does not absolutely part with its power when it appoints its Committee; and perhaps on no former occasion was a Committee appointed more entirely worthy of the confidence of the House. The hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Gorst) spoke of party men. Why, if you were to shut from due deliberation on grave matters all those who take an active part in the discussions of this House, the course of Business in this House would be greatly impeded. I was about to say just now that I thought the Government should step forward, on this occasion, and guide the House to the conclusion at which it should arrive. I think no men ever occupied the Treasury Bench who would not, under the circumstances, have come to the conclusion that it was their duty to accept the decision of the Committee. There are fifteen boroughs to which some hon. Members are disposed to take exception; and it would be most unfortunate if the House in Committee should go into a discussion and division with regard to every one of them. The hon. and learned Member opposite—I did not know before that the hon. Gentleman had been learned—made a speech to night which went at great length into these matters. But let me ask, why was the Commission appointed last year? Clearly because the House felt itself not
 1276 1277 1278 1279
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown has stated that there was a mistaken idea as to the declaration of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. I wish to confirm, as far as I can, what fell from the right hon. Gentleman. The question that I put to the right hon. Gentleman on the occasion referred to, was whether the Committee was to recommend—what I confess appeared to me a much wiser course than that which was adopted—that the consideration of the boundaries of certain boroughs should stand over, rather than that the particular mode of adjusting those boundaries should be at once determined, and it was with reference to that question that the right hon. Gentleman answered, if my memory serves me right, that the Committee were to make a final determination. Not, of course, that their recommendations should be absolutely final, for it would be impossible that any person should have stated to this House that the recommendations of the Select Committee should be final as against the House itself. Therefore there can be no doubt of the meaning of the language of the right hon. Gentleman. But while the House reserves in its own hands the power of dealing absolutely, according to its own discretion, with the recommendations of every Select Committee, there is to be kept in view by the other side this consideration, that the appointment of a Select Committee dues mean something, and that a definite character of authority is to be assigned to the recommendations which it makes. Now, the right hon. Gentleman says, "Let us proceed to consider the Schedules, and we shall get through the difficulties us we have done in other cases," But our position in other cases has not been at all what it is now; nor does the right hon. Gentleman propose, in the speech he has made, to give any  primâ facie 1286 1287 1288
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House the Report of the Floating Obstruction Committee on "Passive Obstructions for the Defence of Harbours and Channels;" and, when the Report of the same Committee on Active Obstructions will be ready?
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he will consider the propriety of giving directions for amended plans of the Boundaries of those boroughs of which the Select Committee of this House have advised the modification being placed in the Library of this House for the convenience of Members?
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he thought that before they decided between the rival claims of the Commissioners and the Select Committee they should know more correctly the actual facts of the case. In a short but important conversation which preceded the appointment of the Committee it was stated that the Commissioners had no power to inquire into the opinions of persons locally interested. The hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had now fallen into the same error; but the fact was that the Assistant Commissioners were instructed to appoint a time; for the reception of statements from inhabitants in favour of enlarging the boundary; and in their Report the Commissioners expressly stated that all persons desirous of making such statements were permitted to do so. Moreover, he knew in two cases that the Assistant Commissioners invited statements and evidence, and in one case counsel were heard for and against extension. It was not, therefore, comet to say that the Commissioners had not regarded the wishes of inhabitants. The
 1282
 LORD EDWIN HILL-TREVOR  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for
 1229
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he will lay upon the Table to-morrow the information ordered to be furnished as to the length of Telegraph and number of Stations connected with the Railways in this country?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that no Notice having been given of the Question, he was unable to answer it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had seen no statement on the subject of the telegraphs in the United States.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the arrangement for the morning sitting to-morrow is one which stands apart, and I will give the House an opportunity, if we have further morning sittings, of deciding whether the course pursued last year should be adhered to. With regard to the other Question of the hon. Gentleman, I recently stated, in answer to the hon. Member for Cheltenham (Mr. Schreiber), that I would bring up a clause on the Report of the Boundary Bill. It has been drawn, and I will place it on the table, so that it may be adopted at the earliest period.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, in reply, that he would consider whether amended plans of the boundaries of those boroughs of which the Select Committee had advised the modification should not be placed in the Library of the House.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have not seen the statement in the paper of the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Sir John Gray), but I have seen some newspaper statements of that kind. No information of that description has been transmitted to us at any time. Had we received information of that kind, if we had thought it authentic, of course it would have been our duty to act upon it; but the Government have no reason to believe that the assassin of thy Duke of Edinburgh was insane.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I will strive, as far as I can, to bring the Committee to some practical point. The hon. Member for Birmingham made an appeal to me to announce the part which the Government would take, and argued that of course we could not oppose the Report of the Com-
 1284 1285
 MR. DISRAELI : It is vain to attempt to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) at this hour of the night. At the same time, I must express my opinion that the time has come when the House ought really to act in as practical a manner as possible upon this subject. If any plan more practical than that I have proposed can he suggested I am perfectly ready to adopt it. The right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) spoke as if this Bill were framed in a spirit totally contrary to the recommendations of the Select Committee; but he forgets that three-fourths of the recommendations of the Commission were adopted by the Committee. I know no more convenient way of showing every possible respect to the Report of the Committee and to the recommendations of the Commission, and of expediting this measure, than proceeding with the Bill as it is before us, and discussing the few cases in which there may be differences of opinion. It is only by making progress with the Bill that, we can bring these questions to a speedy solution; and, I will not say in one night, but in two nights, we might conclude this business. I shall put the Bill on the Paper for Thursday night, to follow the Registration Bill, the introduction of which will not lead to a long discussion. If we go on in Committee we
 1294
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Since my hon. Friend put the Question the other night we have had full opportunity of considering the matter, and we have come to the conclusion that it will be our duty to propose to the House to vote the Supplies for the whole year, And I think that I shall be able to show that if this course be not adopted considerable inconvenience—I will not say to the Government, but to the House and the public
 1224 "That Her Majesty's Ministers do not sufficiently possess the confidence of the House of Commons to enable them to carry through the House measures which they deem of essential I importance to the public welfare; and that their continuance in office, under such circumstances, is at variance with the spirit of the Constitution."I—[See 3  Hansard, 1225 1226 Cui bono? 1227
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have only become acquainted since the Question of my hon. Friend was put that there has been inserted a provision in two private Acts of Parliament passed in 1856 and 1861, by which the companies interested escaped the 10 s. d. 1228
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member for Birmingham seemed to assume that what was satisfactory to him and his Friends must of necessity be satisfactory to the House. What had the hon. Member pro-
 1280 1281
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that it was not his intention to lay on the table the Evidence or Report referred to in the Question of the hon. Member, for the reason that the witnesses were informed that their evidence would not be made public. He did not intend that evening to proceed with the Metropolitan Police Funds Bill, which was down fur second reading.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I beg pardon; that is not the case. I did not know that my right hon. Friend alluded to me; but it has been stated that such is the case, and I see that the words appear in  The Times The Times The Daily News "Mr. Hardy said, it would be final so far as the Committee was concerned, but it would be for the House to ratify it or not, as they determined. If there was documentary evidence on one side, there ought to be documentary evidence on the other." "The right hon. Gentleman asked whether the decision of the Committee would be final, or only to postpone the question for the further consideration of Parliament; for, if it were to be final, they certainly ought to have evidence on both sides." 1275 "Mr. Hardy said, it would be final, as far as the Committee was concerned, but it would be for the House to ratify it or not, as they determined. If there were documentary evidence on one side, there ought to be documentary evidence on the other, but there would be no opportunity of calling witnesses on either."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, in answer to my hon. Friend, I can only say that there is no power to suspend the existing law, and that the overseers will have to act in conformity with the law.
 MR. PAULL  said, that seeing so much more deference shown by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), and the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone), for the decision of one tribunal than or the decision of another, he was disposed to view with considerable suspicion the motives for that deference. The facts of the case were these—a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the state of these boroughs and the advisability of extending their boundaries, and in order to take evidence, and get information which the House could not itself obtain. Such information had been obtained by a body of men who were unanimously admitted to have been impartial, and to have done their work, as a rule, well. Now, surely, had there not been some object to serve, due respect would have been paid to the Report of that Commission. There were, however, objects to be served, and ends to be gained, and the right hon. Gentleman opposite proposed a Committee. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli), desirous, as he had always been, of conciliating the House, and assisting them to arrive at the best conclusion possible, acceded to the suggestion, though it was contrary to all the usual modes of procedure, for it was always understood that a Committee had not the same means of obtaining information that a Commission had, since the latter could visit the places interested, and make the necessary inquiries on the spot. It had been said, indeed, that the inquiry of the Commission had been limited, since they had not been deputed to inquire into the feelings and wishes of the inhabitants, while the Committee had been appointed expressly for that purpose. What, then was the position of the House? They had before them on the one hand the recommendations of impartial men who had visited the boroughs, and on the other the recommendations of a Committee that had inquired into the wishes expressed by the Members for those boroughs influenced by party, or, all events, by partial sympathies. Having before them the recommendations of two tribunals based on different princi-
 1289 en masse
 MR. PAULL : I said there were party objects to serve in the appointment of the Committee, but I never made any imputations on the Members of the Committee.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, For how many months of the present financial year it is intended to take the remaining Votes in Supply, including those to be reported this day?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he is aware that the Stamp Duty on the transfer of the Debenture Stock of some of the principal Railway Companies is 6 d. s.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is his intention to lay upon the Table of the House, Copy of the Evidence taken by, and of any Report made to, the Secretary of State for the Home Department by the Committee appointed by him to conduct certain inquiries into the management of the Metropolitan Police?
 MR. OSBORNE : Sir, it appears to me, after the speech of the late Commissioner, who has not proved, at least to my satisfaction, that he gave to the subject the consideration it demanded, that we have arrived at the supreme point of stultification. In the first instance. Her Majesty's Government threw over the Report of the Commissioners. They acknowledge the justice of the memorials which were presented to them from several towns, and they appointed a Select Committee, which appointment was, in fact, a compromise with a party in this House in order to put aside the Amendment of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert). I altogether objected to the Report of the Commissioners; I objected to the constitution of the Commission, but I was not supported at the
 1291
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER : Sir, I do not with to detain the Committee by any very long observations on this question, but important conditions have been touched upon in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole) which ought not; to be overlooked in determining this ques-
 1283
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he entirely and totally dissented from the doctrine that if the House adopted the Report of the Select Committee that would be tantamount to passing a censure on the Commission. His respect for the Commission and his intimate personal relations with one of its members would have prevented him joining the Committee if he had imagined it was to sit in judgment on the Commission. He believed one thing was
 1292
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, the hon. Member stated that there were party objects to serve, and he implied that they had been served. So far from the Committee having listened to party views, when anybody opened the question of party interests the Chairman promptly desired him to desist from referring to them. As to his own impartiality, which had been questioned by the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Gorst), all he would say was, he had sat for sixteen years in the House, and had adhered with tolerable fidelity to the party which represented his views, and the views of those who elected him, and if other hon. Members had done the same it would have been better for the House and the country; but although a party man, he could not charge himself with having voted or spoken in a way which would justify anyone in saying he would not give a fair verdict on a question like this. A man might perhaps be a bad judge of his own impartiality; but he should have thought that the legal experience of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Gorst) would have taught him that the time to question the impartiality of your umpire was before he was appointed, and not after he had given his decision. He had little to add to the able statement of the Chairman of the Committee. A cry had been raised, "We will have the counties, and
 1293
 MR. WALPOLE : After the observations of my hon. and learned Friend the House will probably expect from me, as one of the Committee—and having been elected Chairman I look upon myself as the servant of the House—to inform them of all which the Committee did in order that the House may be enabled to arrive at a proper judgment of the whole of this matter. In doing so I shall avoid all controversy on one side or the other, staling only what the Committee have done, and their reasons, as far as I can briefly do it, for arriving at the conclusions they did, and I hope any Member of the Committee will correct me if I should state anything inaccurately. Two observations only would I make of a prefatory character. First, I agree with my hon. and learned Friend as to the courses which are open to us; and the other observation is this—I think my hon. and learned Friend, had he been present in the Committee, would not have charged any Member with acting from party motives. The difficulties of this case grow upon us as we reflect on them more and more. They have arisen from the imperfect manner in which the directions and Instructions were given to enable either the Commissioners or the Committee to arrive at a clear and satisfactory conclusion. I do not know that I can better point out the difficulties of the case than by reminding them of the course which it was proposed the House should take last year with reference to making new and enlarged boundaries in boroughs. The House will remember that, at the commencement of last Session certain Resolutions were laid on the table, and one of them—the 11th or 13th I think—related to the enlargement of borough boundaries, and for the sake of clearness I hope the House will permit me to point out the course that has been adopted from time to time by the House and by the Boundary Commissioners with regard to this subject. The original Resolution proposed a scheme—
 1264 "For new and enlarged boundaries of the existing Parliamentary boroughs where the population extends beyond the limits now assigned to such boroughs." "The Inclosure Commissioners shall report to one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State whether any enlargement of the boundaries of such boroughs is necessary in order to include within the area thereof the population properly belonging to such boroughs respectively." "They shall also inquire into the boundaries of every other borough in England and Wales, with a view to ascertain whether the boundaries should be enlarged, so as to include within the limits of the borough all premises which ought, due regard being had to situation or other local circumstances, to be included therein for the purpose of conferring upon the occupiers thereof the Parliamentary franchise for such borough." 1265 1266 de die in diem, 1267 1268 1269 1270
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  rose to Order. He had asked that these Reports should be produced. The Prime Minister declined to give them. They were not on the table. It was not, therefore, regular for the hon. and learned Member to refer to them.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, in the case of a Borough of which the Boundary has been extended into an adjoining parish where the Small Tenements Act is now in force, and in which many of the persons about to be enfranchised under the Bill of 1867 have not been separately rated on account of the Small Tenements Act being in force, the Government will introduce a provision to enable such persons to be placed on the register so as to vote at the next Election?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that the expense of carrying out the Act was thrown upon the public, instead of being borne by those who received the benefit from it. He hoped that a clause would, be introduced to remedy that state of things.
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, that as one of the Commissioners he had not hesitated, finding their recommendations called in question, to agree to the appointment of a Committee, and, their powers being larger than those of the Commissioners, the House had, he thought, derived great advantage from their labours, in narrowing the field of the differences that existed. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) had, he thought, rather misunderstood the First Minister of the Crown when he had represented him as attaching no importance to the Report of the Committee, for the Government, it seemed to him, were disposed to attach great importance to that Report, though not to adopt it without question and examination. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), when in his able speech he referred to the large size of these boroughs end to their immense number of inhabitants in comparison with the counties, left entirely out of view the great number of 40 s. 1290
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  replied, that in consequence of the pressure of public Business he did not intend to persevere with the measure.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether there is any troth in the statements, copied from the  Weekly News The Times
 MR. GORST  said, he had moved that the Reports be laid on the table, and he believed they were produced ["No!"] Then, if he could not refer to the Report of the Assistant Commissioners, he would state what he was about to mention on his own responsibility. He was informed that in the case of the district which objected to be added to Gateshead there was no local Board of Health, as they objected to be washed and to hare any sanitary rate. Would the House sanction such selfish and unworthy objections in the arrangement of a great question like this? The Tyne
 1262 1263
 MR. GORST  said, he would ask the Committee not to postpone the Preamble until there had been some discussion on the different principles of the Bill, and on the position in which the House now stood with regard to it. He knew he was taking a somewhat unusual course; but then the Committee were not going to be asked to take into consideration the clauses of the measure in the ordinary way, and to vote on any particular clause after duly hearing the arguments for and against it. They were invited to come to a decision as a matter of faith in some authority, and they were, moreover, in the awkward predicament of having two authorities claiming their faith and reliance in that matter. There was, in the first place, the Report of the Commission which had been appointed last summer; and, in the second place, that of the Committee which had just concluded its labours upstairs, and which had come to conclusions in some cases confirmatory of, but in others antagonistic to, those at which the Commissioners had arrived. Under those circumstances the House might pursue one of three courses. It might follow out the recommendations of the Commission and give effect to its Report, or it might disregard that Report and adopt the clauses as embodied in the Report of the Committee. Then came the third course, which was that in those points on which the Commission and the Committee were at issue the House itself might examine the reasons for and against the proposals made, and stamp the ultimate form of the Bill with its own authority. In dealing with the subject, he should not attempt to say a single word in praise of the conscientious manner in which the Members of the Commission discharged their duties,
 1258 malâ fides 1259 Cries of 1260 1261
 MR. GORST  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is not the duty of the Clerks of the Peace, on or before the 10th instant, to issue their Precepts to the Overseers of their respective districts, with general instructions for the proceedings of the Overseers in reference to Registration; and whether it is possible to stop the issue of such Precepts, or whether such Precepts will have to be hereafter cancelled by the subsequent issue of fresh Precepts containing different instructions to the various Overseers?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON,  in reply, said, it was not his intention to lay the Report on the table, as it contained matter which it would be inexpedient to make public. In reply to the latter part of the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, he begged to say that the Report of the same Committee on Active Obstructions was nearly complete.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE,  in rising to move that this Bill be now read a second time, said, that this measure had undergone very careful scrutiny and consideration in the other House of Parliament, and the Board of Trade had received frequent deputations and much correspondence on the subject-matter of it. Many of the provisions were in accordance with the recommendations of the Royal Commission, and he hoped that, while it contained much that was valuable, there was very little in it to which either the public or the railway companies could fairly object. The first subdivision of the Bill, dealing with accounts and audit, was designed to meet a requirement which had very generally been felt, and for which the Bill of the right hon. Member for Gateshead (Sir William Hutt), introduced last Session and again this year, was intended to provide, he must here acknowledge the obligation the Board of Trade had been under to his right hon. Friend. They had adopted many provisions of his Bill, and had received from him in addition several valuable suggestions. In one respect he ventured to think that their measure was preferable. It contained ill the Schedule the exact form in which it was proposed that railway companies should keep their accounts. The companies had objected, with some reason, that they might be put to inconvenience and expense if the form were altered from time to time at the discretion of the Board of Trade. The Board had, therefore, after conferring with the accountants of the principal railway companies, settled a form for general adoption. This would not, of course, preclude companies from adding in their half-yearly Reports to their shareholders such further information on matters of detail, such comparative statements with previous years
 1295 1296
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE,  in rising to move that this Bill be now read a second time, said, the Alkali Act had now been in force for four years and a half. It was passed in 1863 in order to restrain the escape of muriatic or hydrochloric acid gas during the process of manufacture of alkali—or sulphate of soda or potash by the decomposition of common salt. To show how valuable had been its results, he need only say that, before the passing of the Act, in some cases the escape of that most deleterious gas amounted to 50 percent; that doubts were expressed by manufacturers whether that quantity could be reduced lower than 10 per cent; that by the Act it was obligatory to reduce it to 5 per cent, and that practically last year, owing to improvements which had been made, chiefly in consequence of the suggestions of the inspector, the average quantity of escaping gas was less than 1 per cent—namely, 0·88—and this year he understood it was still further lessened. He need hardly say that this result had proved profitable to the manufacturers as well as advantageous to the public. No complaints of hardship had been made by manufacturers; indeed, only one prosecution had been necessary. There had, therefore, been abundant proof of the salutary nature of the Act, which, unless renewed, would expire during the present year. It was proposed to re-enact it without alteration, but to request the inspector—who had performed his duty with intelligence, industry, and judgment, as
 1297
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he rose to take part in the discussion chiefly in consequence of the speech which had been made by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for India (Sir Stafford Northcote), who he regretted should have thought it discreet or expedient, in dealing with a measure such as that under discussion, to speak of those Gentlemen who sat on the front Opposition Bench as acting in a body with a purpose  prèpense 1331 1332 1333
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that in April last the Egyptian Board of Health imposed five days' quarantine upon all vessels arriving at Suez from ports in the Red Sea; that quarantine to continue during the usual period of the return of pilgrims from Mecca. That arrangement would undoubtedly, if carried into effect, have imposed considerable hardship on British officers and men returning from Abyssinia. In consequence, however, of the representations of the British Consul to the Egyptian Government, permission had been obtained that they should be forwarded from Suez in trains provided for the purpose without any delay.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to second the Motion, because having served for two Sessions on the Committee which sat on the Hudson's Bay territory, he could confirm the fact that so far from that country being wild and incapable of improvement, much of it, like the Sas-
 1342
 MR. LIDDELL , having observed that the confidence which was reposed by the public in the mode in which the commercial affairs of the country were conducted by private companies was very great, said he thought further time should be allowed the public outside to express an opinion upon a measure by which it was proposed to make considerable inroad on that feeling, and with the extent and cost of the operations of which they were as yet unacquainted. The only great commercial concern in which we had experience, he added, of Government management was the Post Office, and it was not a satisfactory proof of their fitness to carry other commercial undertakings to a successful issue that that Department had remained for so long a time unprofitable in a monetary point of view, us had been stated by the hon. Member
 1330
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that instructions had been given yesterday to withdraw the Colonnade and Gateway of Burlington House from the sale by public advertisement.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the first suggestion of the hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) was that the House should express an opinion upon the policy of the Bill; but, in compliance with the fooling of many Members on that side of the House, he concluded with a Motion that the House should not express any opinion upon the policy of the Bill. Thereupon the right hon. Baronet (Sir Stafford Northcote) took an extraordinary course, for he declined to discuss this proposal, because it might have the same effect as one to postpone the second reading for six months. He could only account for this course by supposing that the right hon. Baronet was unable to deal with the considerations involved in this question. As one of the Railway Commissioners, he could not help remembering that a literary agitation was got up which suggested that the purchase of the railways in this country by the State would be a panacea, and that some gentlemen in the Post Office were active in that agitation.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the first part of the inquiry of the hon. Gentleman as to whether the criminal prosecution of Mr. Eyre has concluded is one upon which I really cannot give an opinion. It is purely a matter of law, and upon such a point my own opinion would not be worth anything. With regard to the latter part of the question, I may say that, after the indictment against Mr. Eyre was thrown out by the Grand Jury, the Secretary of State, in accordance with an engagement expressed in the Despatch of his predecessor, dated February, 1867, that when the prosecution was concluded the Government would consider the question of reasonable expenses incurred by ex-Governor Eyre, wrote to that gentleman, and
 1335
 MR. DISRAELI : I must decline to give an answer to a hypothetical question. When the circumstances occur Her Majesty's Government will consider them, and be prepared to give an opinion.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am sure my hon. and gallant Friend will, upon reflection, feel that a Question of this importance ought not to have been put without Notice having been given.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving that this Bill be now read the second time, said, it had been suggested the other day that the Bill had better be postponed in consequence of the state of Public Business and the position of Her Majesty's Government. Now, if the measure had been one which did not affect private interests and the convenience and accommodation of the public, the Government might have been disposed to yield to that suggestion. But he submitted that it was highly desirable that an early decision should be come to on the matter, not only with reference to the interests of the telegraph companies, but also with reference to the interests of the general public. As the House was aware, the Bill empowered the Government to treat with the various telegraph companies in the country for the purchase of their lines, and authorized the Postmaster
 1302 1303 1304 bonâ fide 1305 1306
 COLONEL BROWNLOW KNOX : I should like to ask the right hon. Gentleman, Whether, in his opinion, Mr. Eyre is already protected by the Act of Indemnity passed by the Jamaica Legislature, and confirmed by an Order in Council; and, if not, whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill of Indemnity to protect him against further persecution by the Jamaica Committee or other persons?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the Government were by no means blind to the value of the territory to which the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir Harry Verney) related; in fact, he doubted whether any portion of Her Majesty's
 1344 1345 sine quâ non 1346 1347
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Adderley) bad given too glowing an account of the important territory in question, and he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman's opinion that the Hudson's Bay territory was to England what the Far West was to the United States. He did not think that the Hudson's Bay territory was out Far West. In fact, the whole of North America was our Far West, and Australia might be included under the head of our Far West. Hudson's Bay territory was indeed by no means the most important part of the Far West of England. As to the access to that territory, he had read most of what had been written on the subject, and he was of opinion that the great obstacle to the settlement of this territory had not been so much its possession by a trading company—which, no doubt, was a hindrance—as the difficulties of access interposed by nature between it and Canada. The arrangements of nature were most
 1348
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has seen a letter in  The Times 1336
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is the fact that five days' quarantine have been imposed at Suez upon Officers and Men of the British Army returning from Abyssinia; and, if so, whether he will endeavour to obtain the removal of an impediment to the immediate transmission of the Men to a more invigorating climate, which may otherwise operate in so injurious a manner upon the sick and wounded of the British Troops?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had listened with the greatest interest to the discussion, and was very glad to learn that the Government had no intention of issuing a Commission from this country to inquire into the subject. Not only was inquiry already exhausted; but a fresh investigation would reverse the policy settled by the Committee of 1857, whose recommendations were incorporated in the Act of Parliament passed last year with so much unanimity. The proposed inquiry, therefore, would be a retrograde step, and would be a fatal indication of a vacillating policy on our part. It would lead to false expectations, and do a great deal of mischief; and he was glad to hear, therefore, that it was not about to be sanctioned by the Government. On the other hand, he sympathized entirely with the spirit in which this Motion had been brought forward, and he learnt with great interest that negotiations were in progress to terminate the right and interest of the Hudson's Bay Company, so that the territory might be surrendered to the Government of Canada.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that a Motion had been made for the production of the Reports of the Assistant Boundary Commissioners, and they would shortly be laid on the table.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the First Commisioner of Works, Whether he is willing to withdraw from public sale the materials of the Colonnade and the Gateway of Burlington House?
 MR. DIXON , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the "Act for Preventing the Adulteration of Articles of Food or Drink, 1860," and to extend its provisions to Drugs, said, that the existing Act had entirely failed to carry out the wise intentions of Parliament, and the main reason was, that individuals were averse to prosecute tradesmen. The object of the present Bill was to make provision that the penalty which was already imposed upon those who knowingly sold adulterated articles, should be extended to the manufacturers of the adulterated articles; to render it compulsory upon districts to appoint analysts; and to apply the provisions of the law to drugs as well as to articles of food. But the most important clause was one to appoint some public officer whose duty it would be, on proper information laid before him, to prosecute persons suspected of making or selling adulterated articles. He believed that these provisions would make the law effective.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. T. Cave) had not treated one of the objections of the hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) with the consideration which it deserved—namely, that which related to inquiry into the subject. He regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on both occasions when the Bill had been before the House, had felt himself under the necessity of curtailing his observations, and therefore had not been able to do full justice to his own proposal. On the occasion when the Bill was introduced there had been no discussion at all, and to-day the right hon. Gentleman had felt it necessary to be somewhat brief in his remarks on a subject, the importance of which, whatever their opinions might be as to the merits of the Bill, no one would undervalue. The right hon. Gentleman had attached too much importance to the petitions presented in favour of the Bill, though in the spirit of those petitions he (Mr. Goschen) quite concurred. It might be that it was desirable that this Bill should pass into law. But at present the House scarcely knew enough to affirm the principle of the Bill. He should not have felt able to vote against the measure if the hon. Member for York had persisted in his intention to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, because that would have been a declaration against the principle of the measure. But it appeared to him that it would be better that the whole subject should be referred to a Select Committee than that the Bill, in its present form, should be so referred; and for this reason, that if the Bill was referred to a Select Committee, it must of necessity be a hybrid Committee. It was necessary that the question of compensation to the companies should be dealt with very carefully. If they looked to the great importance of the measure, he maintained that it would be impossible without precedent that a proposal of such magnitude
 1321 1322 s s d 1323 1324
 MR. LEEMAN , in rising to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, he must be permitted to express very strongly the feeling entertained by those whose private interests were affected on the ground of the form in which the Bill now came before the House. The House would observe, from what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that interests worth something like £4,000,000 were affected by the Bill, and he objected to the course pursued. As long ago as last November the Government gave notice in the  London Gazette 1307 1308 1309 espionnage; 1310 1311 d d d d s s.; s d.; s s s s s s d s s s d 1312 d s d s 1313 1314
 MR. LAMONT : The Answer I have received not being what I was led to expect, I shall not withdraw the Motion of which I have given Notice, but shall postpone it till Friday.
 MR. LAMONT : Do I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that Her Majesty's Government will protect Mr. Eyre against further proceedings by the Jamaica Committee?
 MR. LAMONT  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government now consider that the criminal prosecution against Mr. Eyre has concluded; and whether they are prepared to defray the legal expenses Mr. Eyre has incurred in defending himself?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would give no mere party vote upon that occasion;
 1327 1328 bonâ fide 1329
 MR. CRAWFORD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. AYTOUN  expressed a hope that Her Majesty's Government would not accede to the Motion for the appointment of a Royal Commission to consider the best means of opening up the country between Canada and the Pacific. There were two reasons which might induce us to extend our territory. The first was that our military positions would be improved, and the second was, that it would be for the benefit of this country. Now, instead of improving our military position, it was a self-evident proposition that by extending our territory without materially increasing the population of the country we should be weakening it. The great source of our weakness in Canada was an enormous territory, with a scattered population. As regarded the benefit to be derived by the people of this country, the hon. Baronet (Sir Harry Verney) thought it would be of great advantage to the Irish, who could not find land in their own country, to find as much fertile land as they could desire in this new territory which he desired to open up. He was in favour of inducing and helping the people of this country who could not find employment here to go to some other country, either to our own colonies or to America; but he could not conceive any necessity for looking for new territories when we had such abundance of unoccupied territory already waiting for settlement. Canada, at the present moment, cost us £1,000,000 a year; and, some time ago, the House voted money towards the construction of an extensive system of fortifications, which it was expected that the colonists would complete, but they had never taken any steps towards that object. Everyone knew that it was impossible to induce colonists to bear their fair share of burdens of this kind, and yet the hon. Baronet asked the House to assent to his Motion, which evidently had for its object to lead the way to a further increase of British territory.
 MR. GRAVES  said, it must be admitted that the question under discussion was one which had two sides, and that the arguments on that side which was opposed to the views of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been laid before the House with considerable force and ability by the hon. Member who had just spoken (Mr. Leeman), and were well entitled to consideration. He must, however, add that those arguments had entirely failed to remove from his mind the impression that the advantages which would be likely to be derived from the transfer of the telegraph lines of this country to the control of the Government would be greater than the disadvantages which his hon. Friend had described. In replying to the objections which had been urged by the hon. Gentleman against the Bill, he would, in the first place, observe that there was no such similarity as he sought to establish between the case of telegraph and that of railway companies, inasmuch as the House had, he believed, never required the former, in transferring their property, to come before it for its approval, the only consent they were compelled to obtain for the purpose being that of the Board of Trade. If that were so, he could not perceive that there was any great force in the argument that the Bill should be so dealt with as to be sent first to a Select Committee and then be brought before the House. He altogether differed from his hon. Friend, too, as to the number of persons who would avail themselves of the facilities afforded by the telegraph if the tariff of charges were reduced. As mutters now stood, communication by telegraph in this country was a luxury which was confined to those who were able to pay for it, and it was because he desired to see the benefits which such persons enjoyed in that respect extended as
 1315 d d d d d d d d s d s d s d 1316 "To secure the honour and reputation of the British Government as a guarantee for the privacy of communications, necessarily more confidential than those conveyed under sealed envelope through the post; to establish a conviction that the pub-
 1317 1318
 MR. THOMAS CAVE  said, he had no interest, either directly or indirectly, in any of the telegraph companies; but, speaking from a public point of view, he thought the objections of the hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) were not such as should influence the House to reject this Bill. These objections were tenfold, and he should endeavour to reply to them seriatim. First, the hon. Member said that the safety of the public in railway travelling would be interfered with; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer had clearly stated that the railway companies would still be allowed to use the private wires which they now had, and would therefore have the same means of communicating from station to station for the regulation of their traffic as heretofore. As to the objection suggesting Government  espionnage espionnage 1319 d 1320
 SIR HARRY VERNEY , in rising to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to issue a Royal Commission to inquire into and report upon the capability for settlement and the best means of settling Her Majesty's Territory lying between Lake Superior and the Pacific, especially as to the provision for Telegraphic and other Communication through Her Majesty's Dominions from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean"— 1337 1338 1339 Bruce's Atlas 1340 1341
 SIR HARRY VERNEY , in reply, said, he would not ask for a Commission if the Colonial Department thought they could effect what was desirable by a better mode. He trusted, however, that the, subject would receive immediate attention.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goschen) threw a light upon a circumstance which occurred in the early part of the debate, and seemed rather peculiar. The hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) had given Notice of his intention to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. That was a natural course for him to take, because the hon. Member objected to the Bill, and wished to get rid of it. But some intimation appeared to be conveyed to him from other parts of the House and from right hon. Gentlemen on the front Opposition Bench, that they were not prepared to support him in his Amendment. Strangely enough, after the hon. Gentlemen had declared against the principle of the Bill, he sat down without moving his Amendment at all, but got up to move instead, without explanation, that the whole subject be referred to a Select Committee. It was observed that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goschen), who approved the principle of the Bill, and had argued in favour of it, handed to the hon. Member for York the terms of the amended Notice that he was to give. It was clear that some telegraphic communication had been passing between the Benches opposite which had rapidly altered the strategy of the hon. Member for York, and he congratulated the hon. Member on the promptitude with which he had executed a "change of front" on a very short notice. The hon. Member equally obtained his object whether his original Motion that the Bill be read a second time that day six months were carried, or his amended Motion that the whole subject be referred to a Select Committee. Practically, the result was the same, the only difference being that he would have had a difficulty in carrying his original Motion, but that he expected to get a large number of Members to vote
 1325 1326
 VISCOUNT MILTON  felt bound to say it was no longer a question of more or less difficulty with regard to making and maintaining a road, as the time had arrived when this country must consider whether
 1349 1350
 MR. OTWAY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. LOPES , in rising to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, it had been introduced in a very plausible manner by the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre); but would, in his opinion, if passed, materially affect the existing relations between husband and wife, and introduce discomfort, ill-feeling, and distrust where hitherto harmony and concord had prevailed. As the hon. Member had stated in introducing the Bill, it was similar to one which had been introduced in 1857 by Sir Erskine Perry, and which received some amount of favour from the House, having been read a second time and afterwards referred to a Select Committee. But at that time there were admitted grievance with regard to the law of husband and wife. Thus, no facilities existed for obtaining a dissolution of marriage— a privilege then confined to the wealthy—and the earnings of a married woman deserted by her husband received no protection from the law. The Divorce
 1353 1354 "Whereas the law of property and contract with respect to married women is unjust in principle, and presses with peculiar severity upon the poorer classes of the community." "A married woman shall be capable of holding, acquiring, alienating, devising, and bequeathing real and personal estate, of contracting, and of suing and being sued, as if she were a  feme sole 1355
 MR. KARSLAKE , in seconding the Amendment, said he objected to the Bill as the most revolutionary measure that had been introduced to the House since he had had the honour of a seat in it. He objected to it on two grounds— in the first place, because it would effect an entire revolution in the social status of husband and wife; and in the next, because it would work a like revolution in regard to the law of property; and it was difficult to say under which head it was most open to objection. He would ask the House to judge of the Bill upon its own merits, and by that test to throw it out. There was an extreme discrepancy between the Preamble and the enacting part of the Bill.
 1356 1357 feme sole 1358
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he should support the Bill. Whatever doubts he might have entertained on the subject would, he felt bound to say, have been removed rather than strengthened by the exaggerated statements of hon. Gentlemen opposite. They had spoken of a social revolution. But
 1359
 MR. MELLY  disputed the statement that 499 women out of 500 in the humbler classes possessed no property, remarking that 800,000 women were in receipt of weekly wages in factories, and one in four of the married women are employed in manufacturing industries. Protection against dishonest and reckless husbands was urgently required, and he was not terrified at the epithet "revolutionary," remembering how systematically it was applied by hon. Gentlemen opposite to measures designed to improve the social condition of the masses. In the homes of many thousands in the manufacturing districts the passing of such a measure would be regarded as an inestimable boon.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, I agree that we ought not to discuss this question from a party point of view; but although it may be necessary to give greater protection to married women in the disposal of their property and earnings, the change proposed to be made in the law by this Bill is so great that in its present form I am not prepared to assent to it. The right hon. Gentleman says that women in the upper classes are protected by a settlement made before marriage, and that this is the best proof of the errors and wickedness of the Common Law. But marriage settlements are framed not only to protect the wife; but to take care that on her part she does not make away with the property and prevent the children of the marriage from being benefited by it. A marriage settlement is never made for the benefit and protection of the wife alone. Hon. Members who have argued in favour of this Bill have forgotten the extent of the change which it proposes to make in the present law. It is true that the wife gives up a certain amount of interest in her property to her husband, but what does she get in return? Perfect immunity from the debts contracted by herself. A wife may order goods for which her husband must pay. The Bill proposes to treat the married woman as if she were a  feme sole 1368 "Every woman married before this Act has come into operation shall, notwithstanding her coverture, have and hold all the real and personal estate her title to which shall accrue after this Act shall have come into operation, free from the debts and obligations of her husband and from his control and disposition, in all respects as if she had continued unmarried." "The earnings of a married woman in any trade or other occupation carried on by her separately from the trade or other occupation of her husband shall be deemed to be her personal estate." feme sole feme sole 1369 Vict 1370
 MR, SHAW-LEFEVRE  pointed out that the noble Lord who had just spoken appeared to have forgotten that the words of the marriage service were not now in harmony with the existing law, because they declared that the husband endowed his wife with all his worldly goods, whereas, in fact, everything which the wife possessed became her husband's. The tendency of the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Colchester (Mr. Karslake) reminded him very much of the lines in "The Taming of the Shrew,' addressed by Petruchio to Katharina—
 "I will be master of what is mine own: She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house, My household-stuff, my field, my barn, My horse, my ox, my ass, my anything." 1374 "My own experience leads me to believe that to raise the social position of women among the lower classes, by securing to them their separate property, would be of great benefit. Cases come before me constantly of idle and profligate men taking the earnings of the industrious wife for their own selves. Not long ago I had to help a. poor woman through her confinement, who had saved from her earnings a little money to meet this emergency. Her husband was a drunkard, and finding she had a supply, ascertained the source, and beat her in her weak condition in the most brutal manner until she delivered up her money. I did not think he would have done this if he had not known that legally the money was his own." "I have a husband who is a clever workman, and can earn good wages when he phases, but I go out as a daily cook and make money. This he takes from me, leaving me penniless whenever he chooses. So I have left him, and for the present taken refuge with friends who would put me into some way of earning money but for fear of his coming and seizing all." 1375 "It is now move than twenty-five years that the subject of the independent ownership by married women of their separate property has been a subject of consideration by our Courts and Legislatures, and the course of action has from time to time uniformly been in the direction of a more rather than a less independent right over their property by married women. I believe any attempt to go back to the Common Law would find little favour at this day. So far as my own observation extends, I have seen no mischievous consequences growing out of the change. It certainly makes wives more independent in the matter of property than the Common Law did. But I have never known it to breed discord or discontent in families; it often saves a family from the consequences of the recklessness or misfortunes of the husband or father by saving from the reach of the creditors the estate which belongs to the wife. I am free to say that although I regarded the first inroad upon the Common Law as to the rights of husbands in their wives' estates with apprehension that it would cause angry and unkind feelings in families, and open the door for fraud, so far as his creditors were concerned, I am so far convinced to the contrary that I would not be one to restore that Common Law if I could." 1376
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, under existing circumstances, it was advantageous to proceed further with this Bill this Session? When it was under the consideration of the House laat year, he (the Earl
 1379
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had no wish to re-open the discussion on the principle of
 1380
 MR. NEWDEGATE  denied that there was any case of hardship proved to justify the present Bill, except it was considered a hardship that the Roman Catholic priests — the arrogance of whose disposition was well-known— should be compelled to ask permission of the clergyman of the parish to read their burial service over their dead in the Protestant burial-ground, which was the property of the Church. He did not think that the project of the right hon. Gentleman opposite and his party for the disestablishment and disendowment of the Episcopal Church in Ireland would ever become law. But even supposing that it should become law, this property— like all the other property of the Church— would fall into the hands of the Executive, to be disposed of at the pleasure of Parliament. It appeared to him that the appeal of the noble Earl to the right hon. Gentleman opposite was reasonable. The right hon. Gentleman and his Friends either believed or did not believe that the property of the Irish Church would fall into the hands of the Executive, and if their anticipation was well-founded, Parliament would ultimately have the disposal of it in any way it deemed fitting. Then there was no reason for proceeding further with this measure. If they did not believe it their grievance amounted to this — that it was a degradation to the Roman Catholic priests to have to write a letter to the owner of a graveyard for leave to read the burial service over the remains buried in it. He looked upon this Bill as a part of the system of aggression to which the Church of England was now exposed. The people of this country were gradually conscious of the fact that, under the plea of grievance, aggression upon the rights and property of the Church was constantly perpetrated.
MR. SYNAN said, that the instances of hardships drawn from the North of Ireland alone had induced the House, on the
 1381
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he could not see why the progress of the Bill should be at all affected by the question whether the Irish Church was or was not to be disestablished. In the former event the churches would, in accordance with the plan of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire, still remain in the hands of the Protestant clergy, and there would in that case be the same need for such legislation as his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick proposed as now.
 MR. LEFROY  moved the following Amendment in line 22, after "chapel," to insert—
 "Nor within one hour before the commencement or after the conclusion of such celebration, nor during the time at which the incumbent or minister of such church or chapel, or any other minister or other ecclesiastical person, shall be performing the burial service in such churchyard or graveyard; Provided also, That nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the burial of any dead body within the walls of any church or chapel, or within twelve feet of the outside of wall thereof."
 MR. MONSELL  objected to the Amendment as unnecessary.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that when the second reading of the Bill was under discussion he pointed out to the right hon. Gentleman the necessity there was for providing some means to preserve order and prevent collision between parties of different religious. He thought the most ordinary feelings of decency would recommend such a course. Whether the present provision was the best adapted for that purpose he did not know; but he thought some provision ought to be adopted.
 MR. CANDLISH  was afraid that in certain circumstances the notice would be more likely to cause disorder than to prevent it, as in the case of the funeral being, however unavoidably, behind the time fixed.
 MR. VANCE  said, he would alter the word "burial" in his Amendment to "religious service."
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  said, it would certainly be necessary that some notice should be given, and he would propose the addition of the following words: —
 "Provided always that notice in writing of the day and hour on which such burial is intended to; take place shall be given to the police by such priest or clergyman at least twelve hours before such burial."
 MR. LAWSON  said, that the adoption of the Amendment would invite collision between contending parties.
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  intimated that if; the right hon. Gentleman could effect the object he desired to accomplish in proposing the Amendment by the insertion of different words he would be perfectly satisfied.
 SIR HENRY WINSTON - BARRON  asked what was to be done in the case of a parish where there was no Protestant; clergyman and no Protestant Church. That was the case of a parish in the county of Waterford.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that the Bill was only intended to apply to
 1383
 MR. VANCE  said, it should be the object of all classes to prevent collision in the churchyards; and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell), as he had rejected the Amendment proposed, should bring up a clause of his own on the subject. A great deal of ill-feeling would be created, and a great deal of outrage would occur, should this Bill be passed in its present shape.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that he had already brought up a clause founded upon a suggestion made on the second reading by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) to prevent two funeral services going on at the same time. He felt the same interest as the hon. Gentleman in the preservation of law and order, and he thought that the means he had adopted for that purpose were sufficient. Was it to be supposed that any ministers of religion would take a course that would cause disturbance? There had not been any disturbance under the existing law, and he thought the danger of disturbance was not increased, but rather diminished, by this Bill.
 MR. VANCE  remarked that contending parties might unwittingly and without knowledge meet in the churchyards, and under such circumstances a collision would be inevitable.
 MR. LEFROY  proposed to insert the following clauses after Clause 1: —
 "It shall not be lawful for any person to enter the churchyard or graveyard attached or belonging to any rectory, vicarage, church, or chapel of such church, for the purpose of opening or making any grave in such churchyard or graveyard, or to open or make any such grave, unless such person shall be the sexton of such church or chapel, or shall be duly authorized thereto by the incumbent or minister of such church or chapel. (Penalty for offences against this Act). "Every person who shall offend against this Act shall be liable, upon a summary conviction for the same before any justice of the peace for the county, riding, division, liberty, city, borough, police district, or place where the offence shall be committed, to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds for every such offence."
 MR. MONSELL  opposed the clause.
 MR. J. COLE  moved the insertion of the following clause: —
 "Nothing herein contained shall authorize the burial of any person not belonging to the United Church of England and Ireland in any churchyard or graveyard where heretofore no such burial has ever taken place, and when there exists within the parish another churchyard, graveyard, or burial ground in which persons not belonging to the United Church of England and Ireland can be buried under the provisions of this Act."
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had no objection to the clause.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he concurred in the object the hon. Member had in view, but did not think the proposed clause would accomplish it. He hoped the clause would be withdrawn, and he would promise that a clause should be introduced to prevent the performance of anything beyond a regular burial service.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he could only agree to support the second reading of this Bill on the understanding that the whole subject was then referred to the consideration of a Select Committee. As the Bill at present stood it contained much that neither accorded with the existing principles of the law, nor the social happiness of the community. Many changes would be required in the Bill; many clauses of great importance were doubtful; many fresh clauses would be required, and a large amount of law was involved in the discussion. The technicalities with reference to the subject, he need hardly say,
 1373 Vict
 MR. MONK , in rising to move that this Bill be read a second time, said, he was astonished at the state of the Benches opposite— there being no one upon the Treasury Bench, and only six Members upon the Ministerial side altogether. When a Bill of this nature was before the House, he thought some Members of Her Majesty's Government should have been present to hear the arguments he intended to urge in support of it. [ Cries of
 MR. JACOB BRIGHT  said, he believed that what he was about to say would represent the feeling of a large portion of
 1361 1362 1363 1364
 MR. J. STUART MILL : Perhaps, Sir, those who, like myself, support the extension of political rights to women, should desire the rejection of this Bill, because it is quite certain that its rejection would give an extraordinary impulse to the movement for giving the suffrage to women which has already advanced with so much vigour. But I confess that I should like my own sex to have the credit of giving up unjust and impolitic privileges before they are brought under the influence of other motives than their own good feelings. The debate has produced several most gratifying expressions of feeling, more especially the able and persuasive speech of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Jacob Bright) and the logical and high-principled address of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe). The hon. and learned Member for Colchester (Mr. Karslake) said with great truth that the real authors of the Bill are not present, and he seemed to think they must be persons in whose eyes any change in existing institutions must be an improvement. I am Sorry the hon. Gentleman has left the House, as I could have informed him who some of those persons are. I do not suppose the hon. Gentleman was aware that among the persons whom he was condemning were those eminent socialists and revolutionists the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War; the noble Lord having been, along with that distinguished Judge, Sir Lawrence Peel, a member of the committee of the Social Science Association by whom the Bill was drawn up which was introduced into the House by Sir Erskine Perry; and the right hon. Gentleman having taken the chair at a public meeting held in support of its principles. The hon. Gentleman is aware that the right hon. Recorder of London (Mr. Russell Gurney) is a supporter of the Bill, because his name is on the back of it; but he seems to think that Gentleman's absence intentional, though, as a lawyer, it is strange he should not have known that the Recorder's absence is caused by his presiding in his Court. That conscientious and feeling Judge was very desirous of being present, and would, from his judicial experience, have put the House in possession of the real effects of the present
 1371 1372
 MR. LOWE : Sir, the question before the House is simply this — ought the Common Law with regard to the property of married women to stand or not? There is not the slightest occasion for going into minute details or technicalities. It is that large question which we have before us. Now, the Common Law is this— that the personal properly of married women, whether possessed before or acquired after her marriage, is not hers at all, but is the absolute property of her husband, and that the land of a married woman is for the benefit of the husband during her life, and in the event of his surviving her is his property, in case there are children by the marriage, till his death. Is that right or not? The question is not that which was stated by the hon. and learned Member for Colchester (Mr. Karslake), whether this can be traced up to a long succession of ages in the most barbarous times, and whether it has been confirmed and consolidated and built up into an edifice— the question is, on what is that edifice founded? Is it founded on justice and righteousness, equality and fairness, or is it founded on injustice, tyranny, and oppression? That surely is a very simple question, and there is no need to talk about disturbing social order in families and about destroying the husband's influence over the wife, which is saying in so many words that unless you put the whole property of a married couple into the hands of the husband and give him, like this House, the power of stopping the supplies whenever he thinks proper, there is no chance of concord and harmony in the marriage state. Let us dismiss considerations of this kind, because we have to go to these which are much more elementary. The law holds that when a man or a woman has got property they are not bound to show that they will make a good use of it, so as to make it conduce to social good or to anybody's good. They have got it, it is their possession, and it is respected as such, with the single exception of married women. If a woman possesses property and is married, the law, being no doubt afraid the husband might tyrannically take it from her, puts that temptation out
 1365 in loco parentis 1366 1367
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  contended that cases of hardship ought to be provided for, and reminded the House of a noble poet who married a lady with a large fortune, the greater part of which, on their early separation, he spent in a way which could not be approved. No doubt such cases were exceptional, and hon. Members might perhaps recall the poet's lines—
 "But oh! ye lords of ladies intellectual, Inform us truly, have they not henpecked you all?" "The milliners who furnish 'drapery misses'…. gave such credit That future bridegrooms swore and sighed, and paid it."
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he thought that the question was one quite worthy of legislation, though he could not approve of all the provisions of the Bill. It was undoubtedly hard that a drunken husband should be allowed whenever he chose to sweep up all the earnings of a woman so unfortunate as to have married him; and he would support a provision by which a married woman should be permitted to put her earnings into a separate bank, from which they should not be withdrawn except by her consent, but it would be un-advisable to permit married women to sue or be sued separately from the husband, and he could not help thinking that if such a measure were passed it would give great facilities to fraudulent debtors to set their creditors at defiance. It would enable a man to use his wife's money in business, and if unfortunate to hand over her share at the last moment to his wife, and thus deprive his creditors of their rightful claim. To recognize a separate
 1360
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he thought it a pity the author of the Bill had not considered that question in connection with the marriage service. After the speech of the hon. Member for Westminster it was impossible that the marriage service could remain as it was. A woman could hardly say that the would love, honour, and obey a man when it was distinctly averred by the hon. Member for Westminster that she was to be a  feme sole
 LORD STANLEY , in reply, said, his attention bad been called to the statement in the City Article of  The Times
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has had under his consideration the grievance under which Quartermasters of Militia suffer by not
 1395
 LORD STANLEY , in reply, said, he did not see any close affinity between the two Questions put by the hon. Baronet; but he might observe that those restrictions, although they had been modified, in favour of our troops returning from Abyssinia had not been removed altogether. With regard to the impediments to the navigation between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, he had stated some weeks ago that representations upon the subject had been addressed to the Turkish Government, but he had as yet received no answer to those representations. When the Correspondence was concluded, he would be prepared to lay it before the House.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I have made deliberate inquiries on this subject. It will be necessary to introduce a separate Bill for Ireland, and I apprehend there will be no difficulty in arranging so that the Irish elections shall be fixed for about the same time as the English elections.
 MR. HIBBERT , in rising to move an Amendment to carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee, said, that when the Boundary Bill was previously before the House he had moved the omission altogether of the 4th clause. He had regarded the appointment of a Select Committee as a kind of compromise. He had thought that that Committee had been appointed with the full consent of the Government, and that whatever conclusions they might arrive at would be accepted by the Ministry. He regretted to find that this was not the case. The Committee had acted with diligence and impartiality, and the Government would be justified in at once accepting their Report in the place of the recommendations of the Commissioners. What the Government had to do was to expedite the remaining business of the Session as much as possible; and that would best be done by accepting the recommendations of the Committee; because otherwise there must be considerable discussion and a great deal of time must be lost. The object of his Amendment was to carry out entirely the recommendations of the Select Committee so far as the towns named in it were concerned. With regard to these fifteen boroughs, the Committee recommended that the boundaries should not be altered. The Commissioners had certain Instructions given to them by the House, but they were very vague and indefinite, and were certainly such as to allow the Commissioners to make the recommendations they had done. The House, however, when they came to legislate on matters of a permanent character, were justified in not laying down boundaries that would not give satisfaction. In the case of Oldham, which was something like eighteen square miles in extent, the Commissioners recommended that the borough should include an adjoining district with about 6,000 inhabitants; but the Assistant Commissioner recommended a still further extension—namely, the addition to Oldham of a considerable portion of agricultural Yorkshire, because some houses lay on the other side of the border of the county. The Assistant Commissioner had an opportunity of stating his views before the Select Committee; and,
 1406 1407 1408
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought a considerable amount of time might be saved in discussing the comparative merits of the Reports of the Committee and the Commission if the decision as to which of them should in the main be adopted were taken
 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413
 MR. BRIGHT : The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley) has undertaken, I presume, to answer some observations which I made in the House on this subject a few nights ago. I wish he had been a little more accurate. He has said many things which I will not contend against by argument; I shall simply contradict them. For instance, he said that I was the author of the Select Committee. I understood that the Committee was proposed from his own Benches—and I supported the, proposition for it, as I do frequently support propositions from those Benches, when they seem to me judicious for the purposes of the House. The right hon. Gentleman said further—I do not give his exact language, but he intimated that I had forced my views regarding this matter upon the Committee—that I indoctrinated them, I am told, was his expression. I do not know whether he means that I entered into any conspiracy with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) on this question. What I did was just what the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) did. I appeared before the Committee, at their request and by their permission, to state what I thought on this matter. All I have done is before the House and before the Committee. I will not say my arguments bad no effect; but at least the facts of the case were sufficient to justify the conclusion at which the Committee arrived. He said, further, that I had been in favour of driving towards electoral districts. The general impression out-of-doors is that the right hon. Gentleman and his Colleagues are driving in that direction; but I have never advocated electoral districts, nor a representation exactly in proportion to numbers. All I have said is that numbers must he taken into consideration in agitating the question of the distribution of seats; and if on such a point the right hon. Gentleman will have no regard whatever to numbers, there will come a day when numbers will speak to him in a voice which he will be just as little able to resist as he and his Colleagues were able to resist a certain voice that made itself heard last year. Well, then, he further stated that, seeing I was an advocate for the widest extension of the franchise, it would be most inconsistent in me to oppose an extension of the borough boundaries, as this would extend the fran-
 1414 1415 1416 "Wished to restrain the influence of the monied interest in the Legislature and matters of State, because the country gentlemen were vexed, put to great expense, and were baffled by the traders in their elections." 1417
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY : I shall nut, in the few observations which I have to make upon this question, impute any motives to any Gentlemen on either side of the House in the views which they have expressed. I should have been glad, indeed, if I could have avoided taking any part in this discussion. It is not pleasant to find
 1418 1419 1420 1421 1422 1423 "The increasing population, unable to find room within the limits of the town, has resorted to the neighbouring parishes of Radford, Linton, and Sneinton, and in these three parishes upwards of 20,000 people, closely connected in every way with the town of Nottingham, are now congregated. New Sneinton forms actually a portion of the town of Nottingham. New Radford may also be said to form a portion of the town, though the connection is not quite so close as is the case at Sneinton. The remaining population of the three parishes occupy blocks of buildings lying detached at small distances from each other. Their proposal, therefore, was to add Sneinton and parts of Linton and Radford to the town of Nottingham." 1424 "He could not agree with his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham that it was desirable that the boundaries of the Parliamentary boroughs should always be conterminous with those of the municipal boroughs. There were many large and growing towns situated outside of the municipal boroughs to which the franchise ought, in his opinion, to be extended, though the inhabitants would not desire to be incorporated with the municipalities.…The borough which he represented (Oldham) was an instance of this, and he thought it was a fortunate thing that the Parliamentary area was made so wide in 1832, for otherwise those townships would virtually have no representation."—[3  Hansard,
 SIR HEDWORTH WILLIAMSON  expressed regret that a Member of the Government, the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Adderley), had spoken in a manner calculated to excite party dissension on a subject which ought to be treated with judicial calmness and fairness. The right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Russell Gurney) said that in doubtful cases the Commissioners had yielded to the wishes of the inhabitants; but in the case of South Shields, and other places in which he (Sir Hedworth Williamson) was most interested, he was afraid that had not been the case. The right hon. and learned Gentleman omitted a very material point—namely, that if these places were annexed to the boroughs they would be debarred of their privilege of being able to collect their rates on the compounding system. Much stress had been laid upon the fact that the Commissioners had been very careful not to recommend annexation of any place to a borough when it was not closely allied to it; but this had been done at Gateshead. In this instance a place had been tacked on to a borough which did not wish to receive it. The interests of the two places were opposed; the outlying districts had their own Board of Health; they had borrowed money for their own improvements, and the borough
 1425
 MR. BROMLEY DAVENPORT  said, he was one of those who really thought it a great mistake to refer this matter from the Commission who had bestowed on it seven months of great labour to a Committee which disposed of the whole question in eleven days. He could only say, for himself, that the notice he received to appear before the Committee did not reach him till the evening of the day on which he was to go before them. He wished to recall to the attention of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) the words he had used in thanking the electors for his unopposed return at the last election. The hon. Member then said—" We have Lad a very quiet lime here; dont let it be quite so quiet next Thursday"—the day of the election for North Warwickshire. The hon. Member added, "You are non electors; it is true you have got no votes, but you have got influence; let it be felt." He was happy to say, however, that although at the election for North Warwickshire there was a considerable amount of animation, yet it passed off without any very serious consequences. Under these circumstances he was glad to hear that the hon. Member had no intention that the changes proposed should have the effect of interfering with the election for North Warwickshire. His party were in a minority in Birmingham, and he thought that if the recommendations of the Commissioners were carried into effect that minority would become larger. [Mr. BRIGHT: Smaller.] He hoped that, if the hon. Member for Birmingham did not propose to interfere with the election for North Warwickshire, he should again be returned as the representative of that constituency.
 MR. BRUCE : I am not at ail disposed to undervalue the differences that have arisen between the Committee and the Commissioners; but I think there is a tendency greatly to over-rate the importance of the changes that have been proposed. Those who have listened to the speeches of the right hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) and of the right hon. and learned Gentleman
 1426 1427
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the right hon. Member for Merthyr Tydvil (Mr. Bruce) seemed to be unwilling to consider the fact that the population of Birmingham had overflowed the boundaries of the borough; he said that there were spaces enough for them within the present boundaries, and that they ought, and probably would, fill these spaces with houses. He would, if he could, cabin and confine the population of Birmingham within the present boundaries of the borough. The Com-
 1428 Post Office Directory "Aston is a village adjoining Birmingham on the North.…The village no longer retains its once retired and rural aspect; it is being absorbed by the extensive improvements and additional streets added to Birmingham, and bids fair at no remote period to form part of the town. The Hall, built by Sir Thomas Holt in 1635, and the grounds attached, are in the possession of the Aston Park Company, and are used for fetes, & c." 1429 1430
 MR. OSBORNE : I think it important that the Committees should recollect one thing—that however great, populous, and distinguished the borough of Birmingham and the county of North Warwickshire may be, that is not the only point we have to consider. Hitherto, indeed, in this debate we have heard nothing but "Birmingham" and "North Warwickshire," which have been perpetually dinned into our ears. I must say that I, for one, should be very sorry if, by any vote of mine, I imperilled the return of the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), whom everyone respects, and whom I look upon, in his way, as a representative man of the bigotry of the country. The class ought to be represented, and if I thought so undesirable an end were likely to be attained, I should hesitate before I voted on this question; and for one reason—that I always like to see him in his place. But there are other interests involved besides those of Birmingham and North Warwickshire; and when the hon. Member said that after the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Southampton (Mr. Russell Gurney), there could be no doubt on the subject, and when the hon. Member appealed to the authority of Lord Eversley, because the Commission of which the noble Lord had been the Chairman had sat for seven months, he forgot to tell the House that a Special Commission which had to deal with considerations affecting 130 boroughs must necessarily take longer than a Committee which had the benefit of their labours, and had only to deal with and determine questions affecting twenty-nine boroughs. And when he alludes to the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Southampton, who was one of those Special Commissioners, and who I believe is the real presiding genius of that Commission, I must say I think that that speech was a roost extraordinary one as coming from a Judge. It appeared to me as if the right hon. Gentle-
 1431 "Come, the Recorder!" 1432 totus teres atque rotundus. 1433 1434 1435
 VISCOUNT GALWAY , after the personal allusion of the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) could not help saying a few words. The hon. Member said that he (Viscount Galway) wished East Retford to be divided, and to have a third Member. [Mr. OSBORNE: NO; a second Member.] Mr. Osborne
 1436
 MR. A. PEEL  said, that the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert) proposed to take out of the Report of the Commission almost everything that gave it any political value. ["Divide!"] He admitted that he was personally and politically interested in the matter; but he trusted that the Committee would allow him to give a reason why the Report of the Commission should be abided by, and not the Report of the Committee. It was all very well for the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) to say that the House had arrived at a complete state of stultification; but that charge came with a bad grace from that (the Opposition) side of the House, because if the Motion for the Select Committee did not absolutely come from that side, a very considerable pressure was put upon the Government to appoint that Committee. He did not wish to make the least insinuation against the Committee; but they had acted under different Instructions from the Commissioners. The Commissioners acted up to their powers; but the powers of the Committee
 1437
 MR. HIBBERT  opposed the Amendment, which would undo the vote just come to.
 MR. BRUCE  objected to Wigan being inserted, and said that the case of that borough had been considered by the Commissioners.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said there was a close connection between those districts and Wigan.
 MR. POWELL  said the division which had just been taken, and which he ventured to challenge, was a proof that, whatever might have been the case with reference to boundaries under the Reform Act of 1832, the boundaries now being settled in connection with the Reform Act of 1867 were essentially the results of partizan strife. What had occurred that night showed that the boundaries of boroughs, so far as they had been brought into dispute as between the Committee on the one hand and the Commissioners on the other, were not decided upon principles of justice, nor according to the wishes of the population interested, nor upon grounds which would bear debate; but the controversy had been settled by overwhelming majorities in the Lobby, and by the suppression of discussion within the walls of that House.
 MR. GILPIN  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken so warmly, and with whom evidently, in his own opinion, wisdom would die, was no doubt much dis-
 1441
 MR. WATKIN  said, he should divide the Committee. He objected to the alteration of the title of one of the divisions of Cheshire from North to East Cheshire, and unless that was altered he should divide upon the whole clause.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that nothing contained in the Bill would alter the rights of property, and the proposed clause was therefore unnecessary.
 MR. C. WYKEHAM MARTIN , after the assurance of the hon. and learned Gentleman, would ask leave to withdraw the clause.
 MR. PREVILLE-SURTEES  opposed the Amendment. The universal opinion was in favour of the boundary proposed by the Commissioners, in proof whereof he stated that he had presented a petition to that effect signed by 1,400 persons.
 MR. E. EGERTON  said, the subject had been well considered by the Boundary Commissioners and by the Combe Quarter Sessions, who had decided in favour of Macclesfield as the place of nomination for the division of the county. If Stockport were made the place of nomination, half of those who held up their hands at an election would be inhabitants of Lancashire and not of Cheshire.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, Stockport is the centre of a population of 120,000 of the people of Cheshire.
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, that the subject had been very fully considered by the Boundary Commissioners; and they had come to the conclusion that for many reasons Macclesfield was preferable as a place of nomination for the division of the county to Stockport, which was situated on the borders of the county. It was as well that when there was a nomination those who held up their hands should be inhabitants of the county for which the election was held.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had not anticipated that they would make so much progress as had been made that evening, and he was not prepared therefore to move a clause he wished to have inserted with reference to the compound-householder. He would put the clause on the Paper to-morrow, and propose it on Monday,
 MR. NEATE  rose to move the following clause:—
 "Whereas the county of Sutherland does not now contain but is capable of containing a sufficient number of independent owners or occupiers to form a fit constituency for the exercise of the franchise, the right of the county of Sutherland to return a Member to Parliament shall from and after the passing of this Act be suspended until Parliament shall otherwise direct." 1445
 MR. WHITE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FAWCETT  wished to say a word or two. He never gave a vote in that House with more pleasure than the other night, when this question was brought before them; nor did he ever hear a speech with which he so entirely disagreed as with that of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire. There was not a single argument in it which the duty of a Liberal Member would not lead him to oppose, All the arguments which applied to small English boroughs like Honiton and Arundel applied with far greater force to the county of Sutherland. By retaining a nomination county like this Parliament was encouraging the aggregation of large landed estates, because the possession of such estates was thereby associated with political power. From what he had heard he doubted whether out of the constituency of 181 there were twenty independent electors in Sutherland, and he (Mr. Fawcett) was determined to challenge a division. The great question of re-distribution had yet scarcely been touched, and it would be useful, in the Reformed Parliament, to have a case of this kind to give point to the argument.
 MR. CARNEGIE  protested against imputations on the independence of the Scotch tenantry, who were not so subservient to landlord influence as some Gentlemen wished to make it appear.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he was one of those who supported the union of Sutherland with Caithness; but, as the House had expressed an opinion against that, he hoped his hon. Friend would not put the House to the trouble of a division upon a clause, the effect of which would be to deprive Scotland of one Member.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he could not support the Motion in its present form, as in its present form it would extinguish a Member. It did not propose to unite Sutherland to another county, nor to give its Member to another constituency, as was proposed on former occasions. But
 1446
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he could not agree to the insertion of such a clause in this Bill which proposed to deal only with the election of Members of Parliament. The matter of the municipal franchise had been considered by the Government, and they were of opinion that a separate Bill should be introduced on the subject. In a great many boroughs the Parliamentary limits and municipal limits were different, and it would be necessary to delay the municipal elections, as the Register would not be completed in time for these elections, which take place in the beginning of November.
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  asked if the Lord Advocate would introduce a Bill this Session?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the matter would be taken into consideration.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, they should have a positive pledge from Her Majesty's Government that they would bring in a Bill this year.
 MR. DALGLISH  urged the importance of providing for the election of municipal representatives as soon as possible.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the House ought to receive an assurance from the Government either that they would accept the clause or make the necessary provision by a separate Bill for the re-election of the municipal body.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the Lord Advocate had already given on assurance that the subject should be attended to.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, that as the election to the municipal body would no
 1447
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  repeated that the question could be most conveniently dealt with by a separate Bill.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is true that Mr. Street has been appointed architect of the Law Courts, and Mr. Edward Barry of the National Gallery; and, if so, whether those gentlemen have been informed of their appointment and whether it is proposed by Her Majesty's Go-
 1397
 MR. GLADSTONE : The statement of the right hon. Gentleman, although very brief, has been perfectly clear and intelligible; and we have likewise come to the subject with very great advantage on account of some previous discussions which have brought all the points of it with considerable clearness to the minds of hon. Members. As far as I am able to judge, the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman has been conceived with an earnest desire to meet the two great objects that are in view. In the first place it gives full and ample time for the registration of voters, and to make an arrangement that would run no serious risk of interfering with the legal and formal exercise of those electoral rights which have been conceded by statute to the people of this country to take part in the election of representatives. If the right hon. Gentleman entertains a doubt—and I think there is great ground for doubt—whether the previous stages down to the commencement of the revision can be shortened, he has certainly erred on the safe side—if I may so speak—in leaving perfectly intact all the time now allowed for the completion of those lists. Diligence will be required, and in a degree even greater than usual, on the part of the officers concerned, on account of the augmented number of electors; but we have no reason to doubt that that diligence will be shown. With regard to the subsequent stages, I think the plan of the right hon. Gentleman is a good one, and that by an inquiry before a Select Committee the expenditure of considerable time will probably be saved in the House itself. If that were done, it would enable the House to carry this bill through its various stages without any lengthened discussion. It is plain that we are all agreed upon its objects—first, the facilitation of the registration, and, secondly, a dissolution of Parliament at as early a period as possible. The right hon. Gentleman has himself given what is really the most conclusive practical reason for desiring an early dissolution. We are going to submit a very great issue to the country. We have been
 1403
 MR. BOUVERIE : I think I am entitled to say that the remarks I made a few weeks ago as to the possible date at which the new Parliament might assemble were not conceived altogether in that unjust spirit towards the Government which the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government on a subsequent occasion chose to assert. He said that my suggestions were conceived in a sceptical spirit, and that my conclusions were not to be depended upon. But the Home Secretary has now come just to the same conclusion as myself, within a day or two, as to the date at which it will be possible to take a dissolution of Parliament. There
 1404
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to ask whether the hon. Gentleman will lay the Papers connected with the subject on the Table?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he understood from the Privy Council that they supposed the Foreign Cattle Market would be self-supporting. At all events, he did not propose to place any sum on the public expenditure, either for the payment of the Commissioners or the expenses of the market.
 MR. ADDERLEY : It is true, Sir, and will appear in the promised additional Victoria Papers, that Sir Charles Darling has written to express his wish to retract his relinquishment of the Queen's service, which, he had been told, must be the inevitable concomitant of his accepting any grant from the Colony.
 MR. CHICHESTER. FORTESCUE : I wish to know whether the right hon. Gentleman proposes in the Bill to deal with Ireland. If not, I hope the Chief Secretary for Ireland will be prepared with clauses to be introduced into the Irish Bill for the purpose of shortening the registration.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : In moving for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the registration for the present year, I will endeavour to notice as briefly as possible the details which it will be necessary to lay before the House. Hon. Members are aware there are a great many steps which have to be taken with a view to the registration of voters, both in counties and boroughs, beginning with the step which was taken yesterday—namely, the issuing of precepts to overseers, giving them instructions how to proceed. From that time various steps have to be taken by overseers and other public officers until the publication of the list upon the 1st of August. First there are notices issued on the 10th of June persons are to send in claims; these claims have, in the ordinary course, to be sent in on before the 20th of July, and by the last day of July overseers have to revise, the register and prepare the list of claims, in order to publish such list on or before the 1st of August. I am speaking now of counties; but the preliminaries in boroughs are in many respects the same, though more steps have to be taken. After that there is the publication of the list for a fortnight, including two Sundays, to allow persons to inspect it, and then come the objections. Practically, therefore, we may say that the time is fully occupied until the end of August or the beginning of September. At present the revision commences in boroughs on the 15th, and in counties on the 20th of September, and it is necessary that some time should elapse between the publication of the lists and the commencement of the revision, in order to allow of communications between Revising Barristers and the clerks of the peace, and others, as to the time which will be occupied in particular places. The revision, therefore, cannot begin immediately after the publication. In considering the question how far it is possible to shorten the interval between the dates at which the various steps or pro-
 1399 1400 1401 1402
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he had been informed that both those Reports would in all probability be laid on the table before the end of the Session.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he must complain of the inconvenience of putting Questions with respect to Committees on Bills which stood for Committee a week hence. With respect to the Dunstable Road case, that, inasmuch as the debts were between £3,000 and £4,000, the local Act could not be included in the Fourth Schedule of the Continuance Act.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied that they had been already moved for by the hon. Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Bentinck).
 Mr. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, it is not only true that Mr. Street has been appointed architect to the Courts of Justice, but he has received official notice of his appointment. Mr. Edward Barry has also been appointed architect for the National Gallery, and has received private notice of his appointment, but I believe the official letter has not yet reached him. A Vote has been taken for acquiring the site of the National Gallery, and no other Vote will be taken this year. I also laid on the Table an Estimate, and afterwards took a Vote on account of the site for the Courts of Justice; and I believe no further Vote will be required within the present Session, but it is possible some small sum may be required at a future period.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the five Foreign Cattle Market Commissioners who may be appointed under the provisions of the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill are to be paid out of monies to be provided by Parliament; and whether, in case the Commissioners should be the market authority, and the market should not pay its expenses, it is intended that the deficiency shall be charged upon the public Revenues; and, whether he proposes to introduce a Money Clause in the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill to provide for the above charges?
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Reports of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the condition of Persons employed in Agriculture will be ready for publication; and also to ask a similar Qustion in reference to the Report of the Commissioner appointed to inquire into the operation of the Print Works and Bleach Works Act?
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether there is any truth in the Reports which have appeared in the public journals that Sir Charles Darling has withdrawn his letter announcing his retirement from the public service, with a view to receiving a pension under the Colonial Governors Act?
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the Provisional Order, in the case of the Dunstable Road, referred to in page thirteen of the Seventeenth General Report on Turnpike Trusts, fixes a day for the expiry of the Local Act of 1821; and, if not, if he will include such Local Act in the Fourth Schedule of the Continuance Act, so that the parishes and parties at the cost of maintaining the road may have the opportunity of stating their grievance to the Select Committee on the Continuance Act?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If his attention has been called to a statement made in the City Article of The Times of June 6, relative to the conduct of the Viceroy of Egypt towards the shareholders of the Société Agricole et Industrielle d'Egypte, if that statement be correct; and, inasmuch as the Government of the Viceroy is now trying to raise a loan in this Country, whether Her Majesty's Government have any objection to state the steps they have taken on behalf of British subjects who have been thus treated?
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, seeing that the Egyptian authorities have removed the quarantine restrictions on arrivals from Abys-
 1396
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that the case of the quartermasters of Militia had been very frequently brought under his notice; and there were several instances, undoubtedly, in which not only hardship to individuals, but considerable inconvenience to regiments, arose from the great age at which some of those gentlemen arrived in consequence of not having the power to retire on a pension or retiring allowance. He therefore quite admitted that the case required some consideration; but he could not consent to remedy the grievance in the way suggested by his hon. and gallant Friend. It would be a very irregular mode of proceeding if he were to attempt to increase the expenditure of the country by introducing such a clause into an annual Act of the kind,
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, by the Act 1st  Vict., s. s. Vict., Vict., 1470
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that the only reason why the Correspondence between the Treasury, the Irish Government, and Dr. McDonnell, relative to the change in the medical management of the prison, had not been laid upon the table, was that it was not finished. He would take the earliest opportunity of producing it; but he was afraid it would not be complete for some days.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Sir, no communications have passed between Her Majesty's Government and the right rev. prelates to whom the hon. Member refers, except those which are upon the table of the House. With regard to the remaining part of the Question, I have to state that last year the two right rev. prelates wrote to me, enclosing a copy of a letter which they had addressed to the Earl of Derby. In that letter they state that they were deputed by the Archbishops and Bishops of Ireland to enter into communication with Her Majesty's Government and to apply in their name for a charter and endowment to a Roman Catholic University. On the 14th of March, after I had made my statement in the House, I enclosed to the right rev. prelates the copy; of a memorandum which staled the plan of the Government in more detail than was able to do in my speech. On the 19th of March they addressed to me a letter which is now on the table of the House, stating seven or eight objections which they entertained to the scheme, and expressing their desire for a personal interview with myself or some other Member of the Government. That interview; took place on the 24th of March, and after a prolonged conversation—lasting, I believe, an hour and a half—it was agreed that they should state their views at length in writing, and forward them to me. That was done on the 31st of March, in the letter which is also before the House. The; Easter Recess intervening, an unavoidable delay took place; but after our return to town we took the matter into consideration, and I addressed to the right rev. prelates an answer, which has been laid upon the table. On the 16th of May I received a simple acknowledgment from Archbishop Leahy of the receipt of that communication; and so the correspondence
 1474
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I thought I had already answered that Question. We considered that the opinion expressed in the letter and also at the interview was a final opinion.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why the Annual Report of the Postmaster General for the year 1866, presented to the House on the 12th of August, 1867, has not yet been printed; why the Annual Report from the same Department for the year 1867 has not yet been presented; and, why the assurance given several weeks since by the Secretary to the Treasury, that those Reports should be speedily circulated, has not yet been fulfilled?
 LORD HENLEY  said, he would beg to call the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the fact that there are cases in which one part of a parish is in a borough, and the other part of the parish in a county, and to point out that confusion must arise if the overseers do not make out separate lists. He wished to know, Whether the right hon. Gentleman would cause the Clerks of the Peace to send instructions to the overseers to make out separate lists?
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) deserved the thanks of his constituents for the trouble he had taken in that matter, which, though small in itself, had, it was satisfactory to find, received great care and attention from the Home Office. It would be still more gratifying if the right hon. Gentleman opposite could say that he contemplated giving Stone some slight additional gratuity or a small situation. Unless the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) intervened in the debate and told the House that there was a stronger case in favour of this man than the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford thought, he would recommend his hon. Friend not to press his Motion to a division.
 MR. BRUCE  said, he rose to call attention to the Report of the Select Committee on Mines (1867), and to ask Her Majesty's Government, Whether they propose to give effect to the recommendations of such Committee? Considering the circumstances of the present Session, he did not blame the Government for not bringing in a Bill to embody those recommendations; but he was anxious to recall attention to them, because he felt that on their adoption materially depended the safety of an important part of the population. A great many serious accidents occurred in mines; but the attention of the public was attracted almost solely to those which were
 1499 1500 1501 1502 1503
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Member had assumed in that case a state of things of which he (the Attorney General) could not admit the existence. The hon. Member had assumed that the law was put in force against newspaper publishers capriciously and for the gratification of private malice. But so far as he (the Attorney General) was aware that was a totally incorrect statement. He had been informed that it was only when due notice had been given, and the parties had refused to obey the law that proceedings were taken. A circular was issued after the Act of 1855 was passed, pointing out what it was necessary to do for the purpose of having newspapers registered, and as it was found that several newspapers were published which were not registered the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown was taken as to whether it was incumbent upon the Board of Inland Revenue to enforce registration. An affirmative reply was obtained. Some alteration was at that time made in the law with respect to the particular kind of papers which
 1512
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving that this Bill be now read a second time, said, that when he asked leave to introduce it in February, he had stated
 1517 1518 1519 pro formâ
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the real question was whether there should be an increase in the expenditure of the country or not. If one person was sufficient to discharge the duties of the office, why should two be paid for their performance?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was of opinion that considering the terms upon which these officers were appointed, it was impossible to resist the proposition of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren).
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he thought the hon. Member had been rather severe upon this clause, and it was a great pity that he had not been present when it was agreed to in Committee. All he could say was that he was in no way responsible for the clause, which had been introduced in order to meet the views of those who sympathized with the hon. Member with respect to this measure, and which was not necessary either to carry out the objects of the authors of the Bill, or to meet the views of the Government as expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. The hon. Member said that the first part of the clause—that which related to Maynooth—was unjust, and that the second part of it—that which related to the  Regium Donum 1532 Regium Donum Regium Donum Regium Donum. Regium Donum
 MR. MONK  said, that he was glad to afford the Chancellor of the Exchequer an opportunity of which he knew that his right hon. Friend was anxious to avail himself, to explain to the House the circumstances under which Her Majesty's Government had deemed it consistent with their duty not to be present in their places at the hour at which the Speaker usually takes the Chair on Wednesday last, when he had the honour to move the second reading of this important Bill. He was sure that hon. Members who were present on that occasion would bear him out in the remark that he was extremely reluctant to snatch what was deemed by some to be a supposed advantage, but which he desired most distinctly and deliberately to state was not an unforeseen success, through the absence of all Her Majesty's Ministers. It was true that the right hon. Gentleman came down to the House half-an-hour after the usual hour of meeting, but when he (Mr. Monk) rose to address the House there was only one hon. Member present on the five Ministerial Benches above the Gangway. It would have been absurd for him to address mere empty Benches. He believed he was acting discreetly in moving the second reading and in reserving his arguments in favour of the measure for a reply. The reasons which had induced him, as an humble find independent Member, to introduce another Franchise Bill to the House at a time when two most important Government measures for the Reform of the representation of the people in Scotland and Ireland were occupying the greater part of the time and attention of Parliament, were briefly these. It would be in the recollection of the House that
 1534 primâ facie Geo. 1535 Geo. employés 1536
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought it was utterly impossible at that hour of the night to discuss a measure of so serious a character. He wished to explain and apologize to the House for his absence when the Bill stood for a second reading the other day. It came on at an earlier hour than was usual for the first Order of the Day, and he was
 1537
 MR. OTWAY  explained that he had a short conversation with the right hon. Member for South Lancashire, who informed him that, being very much tired, he could not wait for a long discussion, upon which he said he would ask the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. Monk) not to proceed with the Bill; but the right hon. Gentleman left the House before he had the opportunity of learning the result of that communication, which was that his hon. Friend intended to persevere in his Motion. He thought it would be impossible now to persist in going into Committee when the Government declined to discuss the principle of the Bill.
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought his hon. Friend could not, in Parliamentary courtesy, resist the adjournment of the debate, but he hoped a Morning Sitting would be appointed for the Bill, which excited considerable interest among the huge class whom it concerned.
 MR. MONK  said, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought, after what had happened, he (Mr. Monk) had a claim upon the Government, he should be happy to allow the debate to be now adjourned, and he would put the Motion down for Monday.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the question very worthy of discussion, and he should be glad to hear it fully discussed. He had no objection to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. KINNAIRD  thanked the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Merthyr Tydvil (Mr. Bruce) for having brought the subject before the House. He thought it would be very unfortunate if Parliament should separate without some expression of opinion on it. He hoped that the Home Secretary would make public any additional information which might be lying in his office, so that it might be diffused throughout the country for the information and satisfaction of the public mind during the Recess.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to a fit the Secretary of State for India, Whether any information has reached him from the Government of India as to dissatisfaction having been manifested by some of Her Majesty's Protestant soldiers at being marched to Divine Service in churches where Ritualistic ceremonies had recently been introduced; and, if so, whether he has any objection to communicate the Papers to the House?
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, as a section of Plymouth Breakwater Fort was going to be experimented upon at Shoeburyness on Tuesday, he would give hon. Members interested in shields and fortifications an opportunity of inspecting the section on Monday, in order to satisfy themselves what difference there was between that section and the original design?
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he had no objection to allow the Bill to be advanced this stage, on the understanding that, in assenting to the Preamble, they were only assenting to what every Scotchman would concur in—that some alteration for the better ought to be made in the Court of Session. He was inclined to think that the Commission should precede legislation. He hoped that, when the Commission was issued, some care would be taken that it did not consist too exclusively of Edinburgh lawyers—because, whether rightly or wrongly, throughout Scotland there was great distrust of Edinburgh lawyers. Of course, the legal profession must be represented on the Commission; yet country lawyers, and gentlemen who were in the interests of the clients, should also be represented.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that it was non-ten years since these officers were appointed, with the expectation that their offices would be speedily abolished; but since their appointment their whole time had been devoted to the discharge of their duties, and it seemed hard to turn them adrift without compensation.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  inquired what was the intention of the Government with regard to the recommendation, respecting the Lord Clerk Register, of the Select Committee which sat two years ago, on the subject of this Bill? The Committee stated in their Report that large powers were vested in the Lord Clerk Register, and that a considerable amount of labour had actually been performed by the present occupant of the post. All of it had been, and promised to be, of indisputable public advantage. It was inexpedient, they said, that powers so extensive should be vested in an unpaid officer. They, therefore, suggested the propriety of providing an adequate salary for the responsible head of this important office. The
 1526 Vict. Vict.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that, as no practical result would follow the appointment of a Select Committee during the present Session, he hoped that his hon. Friend would withdraw his Motion. At the same time he attached great value to the discussions that had arisen on this subject during the present Session, because the country must now be convinced that the question was not one which affected the rural districts alone. The great force of the argument in favour of a revision of local taxation arose from the fact that the pressure was felt not so much in the country as in the towns, and not even in the favoured districts of the towns. It was not in Belgravia, but in Bethnal Green, that the pressure of local taxation
 1498
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he must complain of the course pursued by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the state of the Law regarding registration and security in respect of certain publications. He regretted to be obliged to bring thin matter again before the House, as he had hoped, from the tone of the discussion last year, that it would not have been necessary to revive the consideration of it in the present Session, but that some measure would have been brought in to give effect to the general feeling of the House on the subject. Some years ago, when he asked the House to repeal this remnant of laws which were most oppressive to a particular class of publications in this country, the Bill which he introduced was passed, and sent up to the other House, where it was rejected; and upon a second occasion his Bill passed the Commons, and was again rejected by the Lords. The laws upon this subject were such as could never have been placed upon the statute book, except in the most evil times—that was to say, in the reign of George III.—when the old Tory party was engaged in desperate struggles to repress the expression of public opinion, and to maintain its hold of political power. Measures of relief had been from time to time granted by the Legislature; but, although many of the severer penalties had been removed, the process had been always accompanied by some stringent regulation on the subject of registration or security. No one could publish a periodical of less dimensions than 714 square inches, and with intervals of less than twenty-six days between each successive publication; and at a less price than 6 d. 1510 d. 1511 National Reformer Parochial Critic.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  wished to ask his right hon. Friend, If he was aware that since the date of those despatches another chaplain had been appointed to the Fort William Chapel, and that none of the so-called Ritualistic practices existed there?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, in answer to my hon. and gallant Friend would remind him that the highest legal authorities have declined to give an opinion upon the extent of the Act of Indemnity passed by the Colonial Government on the subject to which he refers; and think it would be an act of presumption on the part of Her Majesty's Government to pretend to give an opinion to the House upon that point. With regard to our bringing in a Bill to protect Governor Eyre from further prosecutions, I must say that we have no intention of doing so.
 MR. DISRAELI : When I spoke of "the highest legal authorities" I did not refer merely to the Law Officers of Her Majesty's late Government.
 COLONEL BROWNLOW KNOX : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman, Whether he is cognizant of the fact that Her Majesty's late Government did take the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown on the subject, and have it in my pocket at this moment?
 COLONEL BROWNLOW KNOX  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, If Her Majesty's Government are of opinion that the Act of Indemnity passed by the Legislative Chamber of Jamaica, and confirmed by an Order in Council of the Home Government, is or is not a protection to ex-Governor Eyre for all acts done under martial law during the rebellion in the island of Jamaica; and, if not, will Her Majesty's Government undertake to bring in a Bill to protect Governor Eyre from further prosecutions?
 MR. ADDERLEY : If the hon. Gentleman will move for it have no objection to give it.
 MR. BAGNALL  said, he hoped that if there was to be an addition to the staff for inspection, it would be in the appointment of additional inspectors, and not in that of sub-inspectors.
 MR. MONK  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. NEATE  said, that whatever opinion the working miners might entertain as to the value of the labours of the Committee which sat on the subject, every one who had presented himself before it must feel that their cases had been listened to with the greatest care and attention. He must add that he was not altogether satisfied with the speech which had just been made by the Secretary of State for the Home Department as to the need of legislation. At the same time, there was no doubt that the circumstances of the present Session were somewhat extraordinary, and as the Government had waited so long before introducing any measure on the subject, he thought they would do well to avail themselves of the recommendations of the Commission which had been appointed to inquire into the supply of coal, so that provision might, if possible, be made for the more effectual and economical working of our coal fields. He thought, however, that they might at once increase the number of inspectors, and he did not see how a measure of that kind would re-
 1505 Vict.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must reiterate his objection to the Bill; and he presumed his arguments had some weight, because the Roman Catholic Members were so desirous to refute them. He had voted with the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy (Mr. Aytoun) on the ground that it was unjust to pass au Act designed to injure the Anglican clergy, while the professors of Maynooth were allowed to be free from its operations. The right hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) apparently thought such a course just, and had voted the other way; but now, by sanctioning the clause, he had endeavoured to cover an injustice by an absurdity. The position of those who derive benefit from the  Regium Donum Regium Donum 1533 Regium Donum
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the compensation payable to the suppressed keepers of the local Registers of Sasines under this Bill represented a capital sum of about £200,000. Some of the officers who would be compensated under the Bill as it stood had taken their office on a commission in which a clause was inserted, stating that they took the appointment subject to its being abolished, or a change made in it, and providing that no claim for compensation, in either event, should be competent. He moved, as an Amendment, the insertion of the words, "Having regard to the terms of his commission," in order to limit the claims for compensation.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, it had been assumed that the duties of the Lord Clerk Register had been increased, but he had seen no evidence that that was the fact, and he did not believe it. No new duties had been imposed by any Act of Parliament on that officer, whose work, such as it was, was done by a deputy, even for whom there was not enough to do. His own opinion on that matter was shared by nine-tenths of the people of Edinburgh; and he hoped that the Government, after they had concluded their consideration of the subject, would see that the right course to take was to provide no salary whatever for that office.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he hoped the Lord Advocate would not take the advice given to send the Bill to a Select Committee. Of all things that could be done, that would be the worst, for it would prevent the possibility of any legislation taking place this year; and the Bill contained so many good provisions, that it would be a great pity to lose the benefit of them even for one year. Reference had been made to the opinions of the legal bodies on the question: and, in fact, it seemed to be assumed that Courts were made solely for the benefit of legal practitioners, but he maintained that the public were those who had
 1522 1523
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would earnestly ask the Lord Advocate not to pass a Bill which they had no opportunity of discussing or examining. He contended that if there was to be a Royal Commission, it should be issued before, and not after legislation. He hoped the Bill would be delayed until after the fullest and most searching inquiry. The opinion of those who know the business of the Court thoroughly, and whose interests would be most affected, should be taken upon the subject. They should strive to get a Bill not to satisfy the Edinburgh lawyers, but to be beneficial to the country. He should like to hear the Lord Advocate defend that most monstrous institution, the system of double sheriffs.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, the hon. Member who had just spoken reminded him of the adage that none were so blind as those who would not see. Having sat on the
 1527
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he was rather amused at his hon. and learned Friend's notions of respectability. It used to be said that a man was respectable when he kept a horse and gig; but he (Mr. Craufurd) thought it was quite impossible to define the respectability of the Press by a mere reference to price. If a man published a newspaper in which there was blasphemy, was it to be said that the conductors of
 1516 d. d.?
 MR. GREENE  said, he was glad of the discussion of this evening, because it would show the public that there was not in the House of Commons such apathy on this subject as might have been supposed in consequence of what occurred when the dangers of coal mines was brought under the notice of the House on a recent occasion. He thought the question was one which ought to occupy the attention of the House from time to time. From an observation made by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) on a former occasion, it would appear that the hon. and learned Gentleman thought that he had been guilty of some presumption in calling attention to accidents in coal mines. [Mr. AYRTON
 1506
 MR. GREENE  seconded the Amendment.
 COLONEL FRENCH  observed that there was power in the head of the Police to dismiss on his own opinion of a case.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, By what authority the Executive appointed an auditor of Grand Jury Accounts, the salary being payable solely from County funds?
 MR. CORRANCE  said, it is, perhaps, necessary I that should explain in a few words the reason I have in calling the attention of the House to this subject, and the causes from which, as I think, a necessity may seem to exist. It cannot, I think, but be observed by those who have followed up the business of this Session, that of all other questions, those connected with rates have been oftenest brought before the House. First we had the Committee on the Motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, which I hoped might have saved me the necessity of the present appeal by comprehending in the scope of its inquiry the whole bearing of these Acts. Then came the Motion of the right hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen) on the Metropolitan Rates, in which he disclosed some most significant and valuable facts. The Mines Assessment Bill followed next, and a very little later the discussion upon the burdens of land, so ably introduced by the hon. Member for Wiltshire. In each instance local taxation lay at the root of the
 1484 1485 s.
 MR. CORRANCE  said, that he should not withdraw his Motion, but would leave it in the hands of the House.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he had so recently addressed the House on the subject that he need do little more than briefly to repeat what he had then stated. The subject was one which had not been lost sight of by the Government; and his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Home Department had had several interviews, at which he himself had not time to be present, with persons who took an active interest in it. He had, however, carefully considered the Report to which his right hon. Friend opposite had drawn his attention, and he must add that no one was better qualified to deal with the question than the right hon. Gentleman, or possessed a more thorough acquaintance with it. He felt—having, as he said, carefully considered the Report—that it was impossible to introduce any measure on the subject during the present Session; but he could assure the House that it had been and was occupying the attention of the Ministry. Whether it might or might not be desirable to make some inquiry also into the case of the ventilation of tin and copper mines, he did not exactly know; but he did not think there was such a lack of information on the point as to render such an inquiry necessary. If, however, there were any particular matters with respect to which sufficient information had not already been procured, the country would not, he felt satisfied, grudge any expense which might be incurred in obtaining it, even to the fullest extent. The question of the stipendiary magistrates was a somewhat difficult one to deal with, because hitherto no justice had been appointed without a requisition from persons interested in the subject. What he understood his right hon. Friend to recommend was a sort of local inquiry, by means of which it was supposed that both the feel-
 1504
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that there was a double inquiry before the subject came under the notice of the Home Office.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the case of Police Sergeant Stone arose in the year 1864. Sergeant Stone was called upon to resign by the Chief Commissioner of Police on the 9th of September in that year. The Commissioner of Police, he might mention, had the absolute power of dismissing constables, and there is no appeal from his decision. But the case from the beginning seemed to have excited some interest in the neighbourhood where Stone lived; and from the time when it first arose—when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Morpeth (Sir George Grey) was Home Secretary—up to the present time, there had been continual threats that the matter would be brought before Parliament. It was hoped that this would have been prevented by the arrangement which had been made, because he believed the man was amply satisfied so far as the pecuniary part of the matter was concerned. Stone was undoubtedly charged with having written an anonymous letter very prejudicial to one of his comrades. Stone had been invalided, and in the year 1864 was not able to discharge his duties. Another sergeant was sent to the district in his place. An anonymous letter having been sent in, containing grave charges against Stone's successor, it was deemed important to ascertain whether it had been
written by any member of the force. By a comparison of that document with the undoubted writing of Stone in the police books, and by the aid of an expert from the Post Office, the conclusion was arrived at that the anonymous letter was written by Stone. Afterwards another expert, without knowing what had occurred before in the matter, came to the same conclusion; and therefore the Commissioner was confirmed in his opinion after the second investigation consequent upon the petition of Stone. The hon. Member said that Stone had not seen the letter. [Mr. LABOUCHERE: I said he was shown the letter, but not allowed to have it in his hand.] Stone had certainly seen the letter, and might have read it if so disposed. The most careful attention had been given to the case by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) when Home Secretary, and that right hon. Gentleman did not think it called for his interference. As to the opinion of Mr. Netherclift with re-
 1481 s. d., 1482
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that provision was made in the Bill for separate lists of borough and county voters in those parishes which wore partly within boroughs and partly within counties. It was, however, impossible for him to give instructions to clerks of the peace which he had at present no legal authority to issue.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, the Report for 1866 had been delayed in order that it might be presented along with that for 1867, the events of the year 1866 not being of a very important character. Both Reports would certainly be in the hands of Members within the present month. The reason for the delay that had taken place in the last few weeks was the great extra pressure of business and the increase of correspondence relative to the Electric Telegraphs Bill.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the Report, would, he believed, be laid on the table before the Post Office and Steam Packet Estimates were taken.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied that answers had been received from several of the Australian Colonies on the subject, and there would be no objection to lay them on the table of the House.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the causes of the dismissal of Police Sergeant Stone from the Metropolitan Police Force. In the year 1864 Sergeant Stone was stationed at Ealing. He had been a police officer for twenty years, and had been at Ealing eight years. Owing to ill health, resulting from a hurt received in the discharge of his duty, he was temporarily incapacitated from the discharge of his duty, and a man named Monsell was employed for the time as his substitute. Subsequently to this Stone received a summons at twelve o'clock one night to appear the next day before the Chief Commissioner of Police in London to answer two charges preferred against him by Monsell. One was that he had clapped his hands in the presence of the police magistrates in a case at Brentford; and the other was that he had written an anonymous letter. With respect to the first, the magistrates themselves, on being appealed to, declared their belief in his innocence; so that the only point requiring consideration was that of the anonymous letter. Captain Labalmondiere, before whom Stone appeared, told him that he had written an anonymous letter, and on that ground suspended him from his office of sergeant, and shortly afterwards dismissed him altogether from the force. He was dismissed without having any opportunity given him of seeing the letter, or of disproving the charge by comparing it with his own handwriting; and for two years he remained under the stigma of having written that letter, no inquiry or investigation meanwhile being made into his case in order fairly to decide the truth of the accusation for which he was suffering. During those two years numerous letters upon the subject were written by Stone to the Home Office, public meetings were held at Ealing, and petitions were presented on his behalf from the clergy, churchwardens, and overseers; and at last, in October, 1866, he was informed that if he would go before Sir Richard Mayne with an "expert" he might see the anonymous letter, and compare it with his own handwriting. Stone
 1479 s. d. d. d.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that after these expressions of opinion he would not press his Motion to a division.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he regretted that circumstances had interfered to prevent legislation on the subject; but after the statement of the Secretary of State for the Home Department he was persuaded that some attempt to alter the law for the better would be mode next Session. He believed a Commission would hardly be able to develop any facts of importance in addition to those which had been already elicited by three Committees of this House and by the Committee of the House of Lords, which had ably inquired into the question. He believed that all the substantial facts relating to the subject were already fully known; but at the same time these accidents were of so dreadful a character that if it appeared to be the opinion of the working colliers that a Royal Commission might be able to make valuable suggestions which had not been made hitherto for the greater security of their lives, he should be glad to support the appointment of such a Commission. With regard to the Commission on the future coal supply he hoped it would make its Report before, next Session; but the inquiry was extensive, and he could not say when it would conclude. There was, however, no connection between that question and the subject now under discussion; and he saw no reason for the postponement of legislation with respect to acci-
 1507 1508
 MR. CHILDERS  wished to impress upon the learned Lord Advocate the importance of appointing upon the Commission he proposed some gentlemen who would look into the matter from an economical point of view. By this he meant gentlemen who were not connected with that House, and who were not only interested in legal procedure in Scotland, but were conversant with the finances of this country, and would consider the question accordingly. Some years ago the extravagance connected with the Irish Courts was brought under the notice of the Government; a Committee was appointed by the Treasury, and it recommended considerable economical reforms; nothing, however, was done, and the Irish Courts constituted one of the greatest scandals that could be imagined, their cost exceeding the fees by £30,000, while the English Courts paid their way. Last year Acts were passed stereotyping some of the worst abuses of the Courts, and for the time even increasing their cost. He hoped that in this case the principle of economy would be recognized in the Commission.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped that the Committee would agree to the Amendment of his hon. Friend. Since 1858 a clause to the effect stated by his hon. Friend had been inserted in the commission of persons taking the appointments, for which it was now proposed to compensate them. The clause was not in all cases framed in precisely the same words. In some cases, the condition was based on the event of the office being abolished; in others, on that of alterations being made in it. What would less well-paid civil servants in other parts of the country say if it should be attempted to enforce in their case conditions of this kind, suppos-
 1529
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether any replies have been received from the Australian Colonies to the Despatches stated by the Postmaster General to have been sent out in the month of October last, on the subject of postal communication with Australia under present arrangements; and, if he has any objection to lay the Paper on the Table?
 MR. CRUM-EWING  complained of the way in which gentlemen who did nothing were paid high salaries at the expense of the public.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, there were very many anomalies and clauses in the existing law, and it was essentially important to get some of them removed as Boon as possible. If they waited till they got a complete and in every way satisfactory Bill, they might wait a very long time; and he was therefore in favour of taking the present Bill as a step in the right direction. He hoped the Lord Advocate would carry out his suggestion of a Royal Commission, and he trusted this
 1524
 MR. CLAY  thought that a bargain was a bargain, and ought to be adhered to.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would not object to the introduction of the words proposed by the hon. Member for Edinburgh, if it was understood that it should be left to the Treasury to deal with all the claims for compensation, as all the appointments were not made in the same terms, and also to have regard to the recommendation in the Report of the Select Committee as to those appointed since 1858.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that in the course of the discussion on Supply a few nights ago the Secretary to the Treasury, in reply to a Question, intimated that the Government had it under their consideration to give effect to the recommendation of the Select Committee on that subject, and he could now add nothing to that statement.
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, that, as he was Lord Advocate when the salary was taken away from the Lord Clerk Register, he thought it right to say a few words on this subject. The office was one of great responsibility and important duties. It was an entire mistake on the part of his hon. Colleague to suppose that there were no duties to be performed, or that the Register of Land Writs was not within the department of the Lord Clerk Register. So little was this the case, that the ancient statute which was the basis of the system of registration named the
Lord Clerk Register as the high officer of State under whom the system was to be administered. Although the actual recording of the Writs was intrusted to the Keeper of the Sasines, the whole searching Department was under the direct superintendence of the Lord Clerk Register, who had besides a general control over the system. The office ought never to have been a sinecure. Unfortunately, when the late Earl of Dalhonsie was appointed Governor General of India, he retained the office, while he surrendered the salary; and although he (Mr. Moncreiff) was very averse, on that nobleman's death, to deprive the office of its salary, having in view the improvements which it is the object of this Bill to carry out, it was impossible at that time to insist on its not being abolished. But his right hon. Friend, the present holder of the office, has discharged its duties for the last ten years with such labour, fidelity, and ability that the Committee which was appointed two years ago unanimously recommended that the salary should be restored. He entirely concurred in that opinion. Some allusion had been made by his hon. Colleague to the opinion of the people of Edinburgh. He was quite satisfied that the Government could do no more popular act, as far as its citizens were concerned, than to give effect to the recommendation of the Com-
 1528
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had already explained that the Commission was to inquire into all questions connected with the constitution and jurisdiction of the Courts and the number of the Judges; and his purpose was that the investigation should be as full and searching as it was possible for it to be. He would recom-
 1525
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he would not go into the details of the Bill, but while supporting the second reading, he felt no hesitation in saying that the Bill did not go far enough. He had long been of opinion that the forms of their judicial procedure in Scotland had been framed at a time when the operations of commerce were much slower than they were at present, and that those forms were not adapted for the scale of commercial relations which now existed. He could have wished, therefore, that his hon. and learned Friend had dealt with the matter with a bolder hand. He recollected that not very long ago the Common Law Courts at Westminster Hall were almost deserted in consequence of the dilatory forms of procedure. The result was that the legal profession inquired into the matter, and a Bill was brought in which passed—namely, the Common Law Procedure Bill—which abolished a great many old obstructions and useless legal forms, and in a couple of years afterwards Westminster Hall was as full of business as ever. Now, that was an example which he thought ought to be followed in Scotland, and which legal reformers there need not be ashamed to follow. He was, therefore, prepared to support the proposition of the Government. He thought that the Bill would be an improvement, and, at all events, a step in the right direction; and there was no reason whatever why it should not go further, and put an end to a great deal of unnecessary delay. He was very glad to find that his right hon. Friend was going to recommend the issuing of a Committee of Inquiry. There was nothing on the part of those who were connected with the judicial system of Scotland which need make them fear the results of that inquiry. On the contrary, such investigation was very desirable, with a view to put an end to some
 1520
 MR. DYCE NICOL  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the Government have come to any resolution as to the precise terms on which their connection with the Bank is to be continued?
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, When he hopes to lay the Return of Poor Relief Assessments, ordered on the 18th of February, upon the Table of the House?
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he thought that sufficient grounds had been shown for further inquiry whenever there might be an opportunity. The best tax we had was the house tax, though the hon. Member for East Suffolk (Mr. Corrance) had taken exception to it, and had cited extreme instances in favour of his view. There was no better test of the ability of the tax payer than the house which he occupied. After a careful consideration of the subject, he had arrived at the conclusion that upon an average of classes the expenditure of an occupier in respect of house rent was in the ratio of one-tenth of his whole means of expenditure, and that, whether in the case of the man who paid 2 s. d.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he was glad the right hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to impress upon the Government the propriety of putting an end to all the difficulties to which reference had been made, by repealing the Acts in question, which inflicted a punishment upon the whole body of the Press because some of its members might possibly be guilty of a violation of the law. What would be said if every physician were bound to give security that he would not poison his patients? Surely it was sufficient to punish him if he did poisen them. His purpose in rising was to express a hope that if the Government could not bring in a measure of the kind proposed this Session, they would at least suspend fill prosecutions under these Acts, which were generally condemned by public opinion, which it had been found impossible to enforce impartially, and which, therefore, operated most unjustly upon those who were prosecuted under them; often by: individuals without the concurrence of the Attorney General and of the Board of Inland Revenue.
 MR. VANCE  said, that the Bill was one paving the way for the confiscation of the property both of the English and Irish branches of the Established Church. It was a violation of the rights of property, of the Act of Union, and of the Oath of the Sovereign. Upon the present occasion he did not intend to oppose the Bill itself, but wished to draw attention to a clause which had been hastily and inadvertently introduced the other evening. The clause professed to deal in a tender manner with private rights, but seemed to treat corporate rights in a rough way. The misfortune of
 1530 "Every person who shall be appointed to any office in the College of Maynooth after the passing of this Act shall hold the said office subject to the pleasure of Parliament, and likewise every Presbyterian minister hereafter to be appointed to receive any shave of the  Reguim Donum." 1531 Regium Donum Regium Donum Regium Donum. Regium Donum
 MR. PIM  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he will be able to lay upon the Table of the House, the Correspondence between the Treasury, the Irish Government, and Dr. Robert McDonnell, late medical officer of the Mountjoy Convict Prison, relative to the change in the medical management of that prison, by which he was deprived of the office of medical superintendent?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, Whether his attention has been called to the frequency of men belonging to the Militia leaving their wives and families un provided for during the time of training, and thus becoming chargeable to their respective parishes; and if so, whether there is any means by which a portion of their pay could not be drawn for the maintenance of their wives and families?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, in reply, that unfortunately the bounty and
 1476
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that he would endeavour to comply with the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  admitted the importance of the subject referred to by the hon. Member, but reminded him that it had already occupied the attention of the House during the present Session, and had given rise to an interesting debate. As to the Motion for a Committee, the hon. Member had himself given the best answer to it when he stated the various points which their inquiry should embrace. At this period of the Session such an inquiry would be impossible. In another month or six weeks the Session must close, and it would be impossible to consider one of the points alluded to by the hon. Member during this limited time. The speech of the hon. Member might be divided under two heads—first, how property should be rated; secondly, what kind of property should he subject to rates. Now, a Committee last Session instituted an inquiry of considerable importance into the valuation of property; but the Bill introduced on the subject was not proceeded with, and the question, therefore, was not determined by the House. There had been another question also as to how rates should be collected, whether from the owner or occupier, and a Committee on the subject bad been moved for by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). Then Bills had
 1493
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, in reply, that 1,500 notices had been sent out, and that only 1,012 persons had forwarded replies, so that up to the present time the Returns were incomplete.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, the real principle upon which these Acts of Parliament were passed was for the general protection of the State against attacks which might be made by persons
 1515 d.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether representations have reached him soliciting the removal of the Bengal Bank Agency established at the Presidency of Bombay with the sanction of the Viceroy upon the occasion of the failure of the Bombay Bank, in order that the new bank recently formed at Bombay may not be interfered with by a rival Government Establishment; and, if so, whether the Government is disposed to entertain favourably proposals made to that effect?
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies a Question which he had privately asked him yesterday. It had reference to the Despatch spoken about a few days ago by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), who described it as dated February 1867, and containing an engagement, in fulfilment of which a communication had been made to Mr. Eyre, asking him to send in an account for the expenses which had been incurred. He wished to know, If such Despatch had been printed—having searched for it in vain—and whether there will be any objection to lay it upon the Table?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to inquire, If the Report would be laid on the Table before the Vote for the Post Office Service was taken?
 MR. JASPER MORE  said, that great interest was taken in this matter in agricultural districts, but it was too late to appoint a Committee this Session. A Committee of the House of Lords, in 1850, inquired into the matter, and collected a great deal of most valuable evidence. Their Report, however, was now out of print, and he hoped that the Government would allow it to be re-printed. It would very much facilitate an intelligent discussion of the subject out-of-doors.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could confirm what had fallen from his right hon. hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Greater pains could not be taken than had been bestowed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir George Grey) in examining all the particulars bearing on that case. He (Mr. Walpole) had examined the whole of the Papers in the case, and his opinion was that under the circumstances ample justice had been done to Stone by the pecuniary acknowledgment which he had received. The only thing that had weighed with him was that Stone had never had an opportunity of seeing the anonymous letter and comparing it with his own handwriting. No more could legally have been given him, and it would, he thought, be very unadvisable to grant a Committee to inquire into a subject which had already been so fully investigated.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he should move an Amendment that the Bill be considered on Monday next. He protested against the course which had been pursued with regard to the Bill. When the Parliamentary Notices for the Bill were given all mention of the main object of the measure was avoided, lest it should occasion
 1469
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was inclined to agree with the observations of the Attorney General as to the manner in which the Board of Inland Revenue had exercised its functions. He believed the real mischief arose from the law itself more than from the mode in which it had been administered. It was only that day that he had been asked to present a petition from one of the victims of this law (Mr. George Hill), who believed, and had no doubt been advised that his paper was not a newspaper within the meaning of the Act, and who was compelled either to contest the point at considerable expense or to give up his paper, as he either would not or could not enter into the requisite securities. He was willing to acknowledge that the Board of Inland Revenue had exhibited every desire to give to the cases which came under its notice a fair and attentive consideration, but he believed also that there had been an evident desire on the part of the Board to be relieved from what was a disagreeable duty. If it was necessary to require securities for the prevention of sedition, blasphemy, and
 1513 Household Words Household Narrative Household Words Household Narrative d. Saturday Review d. 1514
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he thought it was worthy of the consideration of the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it was just that a member of the police force who had conducted himself well for twenty years, and earned the esteem of all persons in the neighbourhood where he performed his duty, should be discharged or called upon to resign upon a charge being made against him, without that charge being fully and fairly investigated?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he rose to protest against the eulogy pronounced by the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) on the house tax, which amounted to 9 d. d. 1495 s. d. d.
 MR. LEATHAM : I rise, Sir, merely to say a word to strengthen the hands of the Government (in the absence of further legislation) in the appointment of a larger number of inspectors. I am quite aware that it is very important not to shift the responsibility from the owners of mines to the inspectors; but I am of opinion that if the inspectors are to be of substantial use their number must be largely increased. I believe there are now twelve inspectors of mines. If I may venture to suggest to the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary the amount of their increase, I should say that they ought to be at once doubled. I have my own opinion respecting some of the causes of accidents in coal mines. I happen to live where there are coal measures, within eight miles of the Oaks colliery, where there was recently a most fearful accident, to which allusion has frequently been made in this House and elsewhere. I have nothing to do, directly or indirectly, with coal mines, and I have no scientific knowledge of the working of them; but I am of opinion that where a fiery seam of coal exists, as is the case in some parts of Yorkshire, that the present system of ventilation is on a wrong principle; that the use of large fires at the bottom of one of the shafts of the mine, to produce a draft and ventilate the mine, is a most dangerous method, because, if any of the return-air of the pit happens to pass over that furnace, the dangers of explosion are great. I do not pretend to suggest a more efficient mode of ventilation; but it has often struck me that pumping fresh air down into the pit so as to drive the return-air up another shaft would effect this purpose. Again, the size of the pit has often much to do with the chances of explosion. I am aware that the law now requires two shafts in
 1509
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he did not see that any advantage could accrue from further investigation of the subject. He remembered the circumstances of the case perfectly. The evidence was very
 1483
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he could bear testimony to the efficiency with which Sir W. Gibson Craig had performed the duties of the office. There might be a question whether the office was over-manned; but there could be no question that there were important duties to be performed, and he thought there could be no doubt as to the propriety of paying persons who discharged important duties for performing them efficiently.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he will place upon the Table of the House a Copy of the Communication by which the Most Reverend Dr. Leahy and the Most Reverend Dr. Deny, acting on behalf of the Roman Catholic prelates in Ireland, broke off the negotiations carried on between them and the Government for
 1473
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, that the noble Lord omitted to answer the second part of the Question—namely—
 "Whether the communication from Dr. Leahy and Dr. Derry, dated the 31st of March, 1868, was asked for by the Government, and lent by them as suggestions and the expression of opinions on matters then under consideration, or as a final and complete scheme from which they could not deviate?"
 SIR JOHN GRAY  then gave Notice that upon some future occasion, on the Motion for a Committee of Supply, he would bring the whole of that Question under the consideration of the House.
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  said, he thought it would be more judicious to leave the clause as it stood, as these gentlemen had held their offices for ten years, and had discharged their duties most efficiently.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was; sorry his hon. and gallant Friend had not given Notice of the Question, since it would have enabled him to make inquiry. He sincerely wished the experiments to be carried on with due publicity and fairness, and would be glad to confer privately with his hon. and gallant Friend on the subject. As preparations would be going on on Monday, it might, he apprehended, be inconvenient if an unlimited number of visitors were admitted.
 SIR MASSEY LOPES  said, that while thanking his hon. Friend (Mr. Corrance) for having so ably introduced the subject, he did not think it would be desirable to refer it to a Select Committee at so late a period of the Session. The incidence of local taxation was a subject having so many ramifications that it was not desirable to inquire into it at all unless it could be done thoroughly and carefully. He was, therefore, glad to understand that his hon.
 1496 1497 s. ad misericordiam formâ pauperis
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he was not aware of that fact.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, some Correspondence had taken place on the subject of an occurrence of this kind, and he could not doubt from the hon. Member's description of it that it was the same case. It appeared there were two churches, one at Fort William
 1475
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Sir, there has been a communication recently made to the India Office with regard to the continuance of the Bengal Bank Agency at Bombay. That agency was established for a temporary purpose only—for the purpose, as it was understood, of collecting the debts due to the Bank of Bengal at Bombay—and some time ago took occasion to express to the Government of India my opinion that, as the object for which the collector had been sent to Bombay had been some time since
 1472
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he would not oppose the second reading, because the Bill contained many valuable provisions; but he thought the House would have been very glad to have had a little more satisfactory assurance from the Lord Advocate as to the extent of the inquiry to be made by the proposed Commission which was to follow the Bill. The learned Lord had stated that it was to inquire into the jurisdiction and constitution of the Courts, and he mentioned some minor details with respect to the number of the Judges and of the Courts; but he did not think that the country would be satisfied unless there was also a full inquiry into the procedure of those Courts, and the best means of preventing their present dilatory mode of conducting business. The state of the law required great amendment both with regard to the internal administration of the Court of Session and in its relation to the subordinate Courts. He hoped that the inquiry which they had been promised would have special relation to the procedure in the Courts, and expressly injury trials; for on all these points there was great room for improvement. The people of Scotland had an example before their eyes in the cheap and rapid justice of the Sheriffs' Courts, and they could not fail to contrast it with the cumbrous forms that were followed when their suits went before the Court of Session. He thought the right hon. and learned Gentleman had given too high a colour to the reception which his Bill had met with from the profession; he thought he had seen some opinions expressed of a contrary character. The country practitioners, and even some persons who practised in Edinburgh, objected to the details, and indeed to some of the fundamental principles of the measure. He put it to his right hon. and learned Friend whether, looking at the state of the Session and the
 1521
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that a proposal similar to that referred to by the hon. Member had been received, and that it had and was engaging the most serious consideration of the Government, who were consulting the Law Officers upon the subject. The question was also receiving the attention of the other Great Powers of Europe. He need not say that the subject was one of very great difficulty and perplexity, and that it would take some time to decide. He should be happy to produce a copy of the despatch which he addressed to the British Consul General in Egypt in October last containing the views of Her Majesty's Government upon the subject. He apprehended that there would be no difficulty in laying the Note of the Egyptian Government also upon the table; but he thought it better to wait as regards the production of the rest of the Correspondence, until it was completed.
 LORD STANLEY  did not know, but would make inquiry as to the fact. He believed the fact to be that a large portion of these Papers were already in print.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether, in consequence of the opening of the Fell Railway over Mont Cenis, Her Majesty's Government intend to adopt the Brindisi route for the Indian Mails; and, whether they have made any application to the French Government to put an end to the twelve hours' detention in Paris of Letters posted for Italy by the Evening Mails?
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would lay on the table the Correspondence between the Foreign Office and the Treasury on the amount of compensation to be awarded to Foreign Office Agents in the event of their offices being abolished.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I regret to say that no authoritative decision has yet been come to on the subject. I have more than once made representations to the Spanish Government, but the answer has always been the same—that the Government could not interfere with the ordinary Courts of Law. With regard to the granting of
 1564
 MR. R.EARDEN  rose, pursuant to Notice, to move the following Amendment:—
 "That no Bill can be satisfactory to the people of Ireland which does not provide for a rental franchise of £6 or upwards in counties, instead of a rating franchise of £12 or upwards, and a rental franchise of £3 or upwards and a lodger franchise of £3 or upwards in boroughs, instead of a rating franchise of £4 or upwards; that votes at Elections be taken by ballot; and that no borough be disfranchised, but that the boundaries of boroughs having less than 6,000 inhabitants be extended so as to include within the limits of such boroughs all premises, for the purpose of conferring the franchise on the inhabitants thereof."
 MR. SPEAKER : Before the hon. Member moves his Resolution I wish to point out to him that it exceeds the limits prescribed for such Motions by the Rules of the House. It is a Resolution which in reality anticipates discussion on every clause of the Bill, and on some points with respect to which Notice of Amendment has been already given, It seems to me to go beyond the rules laid down by the practice of this House. It would, I think, be more regular to move that the Committee on the
 1572
 MR. REARDEN  said, he would withdraw his Motion in deference to the opinion of the Speaker. He hoped to be able to carry the Amendments embodied in the Resolution in Committee on the Bill; for without them he did not believe it would be worth the paper on which it was printed,
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he rose to urge upon the Chief Secretary for Ireland the expediency of proceeding only with the enfranchising portion of the Bill. The redistribution part could not stand, inasmuch as those boroughs which it was proposed to disfranchise were not the smallest, and appeared to have been selected for disfranchisement on some capricious system, in support of which no valid argument could be advanced. He felt assured, he added, that nobody could be more thoroughly actuated by a desire to act justly in the matter than his noble Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland; but then, he must acknowledge that it was a somewhat arbitrary mode of proceeding to propose to give a third Member to Dublin on the minority principle, and to divide the counties in those cases in which an addition was made to their representation. Then, although it was intended to disfranchise six boroughs, only one of the seats—that conferred on Dublin—was to be given to a town, although, as things at present stood, the counties were represented in nearly the proportion of two to one. What he would suggest was, that the town of Portarlington alone, which only possessed 100 voters, should be disfranchised, and that the seat thus obtained should be conferred on Kingstown, Dalkey, Monkstown, and Bluckwell, which contained a population of something like 28,000. If that suggestion were adopted matters might be much simplified; but if the Bill were proceeded with as it stood, it was clear, from the number of Amendments of which Notice had been given, that the discussions on it must occupy several nights.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that taking into account that they had reached the middle of June, and that everybody was anxious to prepare the way for an early dissolution, it was desirable that the discussions on the Bill should be shortened as much as possible. There were various Amendments on the Paper which would clearly, if brought on, raise questions of principle and lead to long debates; and it would be a great blessing, he thought, if they could be set
 1573
 MR. PIM  said, that in England 37 per cent of the Members would, under the new Bill, be returned by counties; whilst in Ireland the county Members were in the proportion of 62 per cent. It was, therefore, a very extraordinary thing to propose an increase of the number of Irish county Members. There was no doubt that the small boroughs in Ireland were not independent; but no party on either side of the House seemed to take into consideration the arrangements by which they might be made independent. The same arguments brought against five of the boroughs which it was proposed to disfranchise could be brought against all boroughs with less than 10,000 inhabitants. There were many boroughs in Scotland and Wales with under 2,000 population. His own opinion was that these boroughs in Ireland could not be rendered independent by any other plan than that of grouping, which had been found so successful in Scotland nod Wales. Though he should prefer to see Portarlington grouped instead of being disfranchised, yet he was willing to admit that that borough afforded by far the least strong case for the retention of representation, while Kingstown afforded by far the strongest case for enfranchisement; and he should be well content if the whole principle of re-distribution were given up, with the exception of the transference of the representative from Portarlington to Kingstown. The question of the Irish Church was at present one of absorbing interest in Ireland, and there were also other questions engaging the attention of the lower classes in that country, and preventing them from taking an interest in the subject of Parliamentary Reform, their feeling rather being not to be connected with that House at all. He therefore thought that it would be advisable that the whole matter of redistribution should be put off until those questions were settled and the mind of the Irish people was in a fit state to express their feelings with regard to Parliamentary Reform. Under these circumstances he should be glad if the suggestion of the
 1574
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that when the Bill was introduced he objected to the disfranchisement of a number of boroughs in Ireland. The proposal to disfranchise boroughs while the county representation was increased could not he borne out by reference to the principle adopted in the case of England or of Scotland. He thought that such an arrangement would be fatal to the establishment of a fair system of representation. In the counties the landed interest and the landlords had a preponderating influence, and he did not wish to see that influence increased; but in towns the population consisted of people of varied interests and varied opinions. He still entertained the same objection to the Bill as he expressed on the night of its introduction. The suggestion made by the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) was one which was well worthy the attention of the Government. It would meet with very considerable support in Ireland, and, if adopted, would facilitate the progress of Business in that House. It was not to be regarded as in any sense a party question: and he hoped both sides of the House would concur in adopting the suggestion which had been made. He believed that the Bill would double the constituencies in boroughs; and therefore the number of voters would be so large as to form a good argument against disfranchisement.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he hoped the House would not forget the strong claims which Ulster possessed to increased representation. The present proposal of the Government by no means commended, itself as likely to be a permanent measure. He would take the statistics of the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Pim) himself, and he found that the number of Members, if allotted to the four provinces in proportion to population, and also to the annual value of property in each, would be as follows. According to the population in 1861, Leinster, with a population of 1,457,635, would have 26 Members; Munster, with a population of 1,513,558 would have 27 Members; Ulster, with a population of 1,914,236, 34 Members; and Connaught, with a population of 913,135, would have 16 Members. According to the annual value Leinster (£4,386,986) should have 35 Members; Munster (£3,263.804), 27 Members; Ulster (£3,830,040), 30 Members; Connaught
 1575 "You add one melancholy little town to another melancholy little town, and their union makes a still more melancholy state of things than did their separate existence."
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he could not allow the question which had been brought before the House by the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) to pass without some expression of opinion. The impression he had and which was considerably strengthened by what had been stated on both sides within the last half-hour, was that there was a great deal of force in the appeal made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley). From the state of the Notice Paper there certainly appeared no prospect of a very speedy agreement upon the re-distribution scheme of the Irish Reform Bill; and he had other grounds for feeling anything but enthusiastic in entering on the consideration of the re-distribution clauses. The proposals themselves were objectionable, and he found it utterly impossible to assent to them, while, on the other hand, he well knew the difficulties a private Member had to encounter in proposing to substitute other provisions. Although the present system was exceedingly faulty, the possible changes must inevitably
 1576
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that he had been surprised to hear of any commercial interests requiring protection in the greater number of the towns in Ireland. With the exception of Belfast, Dublin, and Cork, there were no such interests. The interest towns were very nearly as agricultural as the counties, for what trade they had depended on the prosperity of the agricultural population. But he could not agree that there was a proper Irish representation. The immense county of Cork was under-represented, so was the county of Tipperary, and also the county of Down: these counties had but two Members each. The hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. Sandford) had said that he was surprised there should be so many representatives of the agricultural classes in Ireland; but what was the proportion of electors in boroughs and counties? In the boroughs there were 32,000 electors, with four representatives; in the counties 134,000, with only sixty-four representatives. He contended that the counties ought to get more Members, not by taking them from the boroughs, but by giving Ireland additional representatives. Scotland had no better right to additional Members than Ireland. If they were to take population as the test, Ireland ought (not according to any calculation of his, but according to a Return that had been laid on the table of the House) to have 131 Members. The Scotch Members coolly set down the Irish Revenue at £6,500,000, and placed their own at £7,500,000; but the fact was that the Irish Revenue was nearer £9,000,000. Therefore, comparing both population and revenue, Ireland was clearly entitled to a large increase of Members.
 1577
 MR. GREGORY  said, that they ought to adopt one of two courses—either to proceed to the disfranchisement, or at once to abandon that portion of the Bill. He had, however, one exception to take to the suggestion of the hon Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) that they should execute the wretched borough of Portalington, and leave untouched all the other small boroughs, which were not, a bit better. He dissented altogether from the idea that the present House was not perfectly competent to deal with a few boroughs, instead of leaving them over for a future Parliament. After settling the great questions of English and Scotch Reform, were they to pronounce themselves unable to decide about a few small boroughs? He did not agree with the plan of Her Majesty's Government; but the points upon which he differed from them were but few, and he was prepared to meet them upon those points. He quite agreed in the proposal that Kingstown and Rathmines should have a Member, because they were among the most rising townships in Ireland. The right hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) had said that there was no necessity for any re-distribution; but he recollected the same right hon. Gentleman on a former occasion saying that these were small trumpery boroughs, of which six if put together would not make a decent constituency. As a county Member, and not looking to the North or the South, he was always for giving to every borough that had a claim its due representation. He hoped, therefore, that a Member would be given to night to Kingstown, and also a second Member to Londonderry, although in al probability he should disagree in opinion
 1578
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he thought that, as the re-distribution scheme of the Government apparently gave satisfaction: to neither side of the House, it was advisable to abandon it. If it were proceeded with he should he prepared, at the proper
 1579
 MR. LAWSON  said, there was not the same reason for disfranchising small boroughs in Ireland as in England. In England there were large and growing towns, with enormous populations, which sent no representatives to that House, and it was in order to provide representatives for those places that the disfranchisement of small boroughs in England was urged. But that was not the case in Ireland. It appeared that the only town in Ireland over 10,000 inhabitants which did not send a representative to that House was Kingston and Rathmines, in the county of Dublin. He protested against borough seats being transferred to counties for it had always been held that variety of representation should be studied. The Irish county Members were, almost without exception, the proprietors of landed estates in the counties they represented or in adjoining ones. Members of the trading, professional, and mercantile classes were only returned by the boroughs. He did not believe the proposal to transfer five seats from boroughs to counties would meet with approval, and he was not surprised to find hon. Members desirous to get rid of the difficulty by asking the Government to withdraw their scheme. He objected to any middle course being taken, and he protested against his own borough being made the scapegoat. Portarlington was not smaller than some English boroughs which, until the recent decision of the the House, had returned Members, nor was it much smaller than Dungannon.
 MR. SYNAN  said, that although the discussion was premature and not altogether in Order still he did not regret that it was raised, and he hoped it might lead to some advantageous arrangements between the two sides of the House. The proportion between the urban and the county representation had been fixed in 1800 and in 1832, and there had been no change since. As a county Member he objected to the annihilation of boroughs to increase the county representation. Such a change would lead to lamentable consequences in every sense with respect to the interests of Ireland. The
 1580
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, the Government re-distribution scheme seemed to be condemned by Gentlemen opposite, because they disliked the transfer of borough seats to counties, and by his own (the Ministerial) side, because it gave additional representation to the South and not to the North. He thought Ireland should be treated in same way as England—boroughs with less than 5,000 inhabitants being disfranchised, and the seats being given partly to the large towns and partly to the counties. Kingstown ought certainly to be represented, and additional representation should be given to Cork city, Dublin city, and, perhaps, to Belfast, as well as to the counties of Cork and Tipperary.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, he hoped the Government would tell the House what they really intended to propose, and not lose time by discussing points that might hereafter be given up, and that could only be dealt with in Committee.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he could not
 1581
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not understand what ground there is on the part of the hon. Member for Longford (Colonel Greville-Nugent) for blaming the Government in regard to the course they have taken. They have moved that the House go into Committee on the Irish Reform Bill, where upon a discussion not originated by the Government, but in which the Irish Mom hers on both sides have taken a great interest, has arisen. It would not have been becoming in us to stifle that discussion, because it has enabled us to learn the general opinion of the House on the matters which have been raised. All that has been said shall receive respectful and careful consideration; but I do not understand that anything has occurred to prevent the. House from going into Committee, on the Irish Reform Bill. I hope that the Committee will now go on with the business before us.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he rose to move an Amendment. The existing franchise in boroughs in Ireland was a rating of £8. When the Chief Secretary for Ireland moved for leave to bring in the present Bill he stated that he proposed to lower the borough franchise from £8 to £4; but instead of lowering it to £4, the noble Earl had made it necessary that a voter should be rated at something "more
 1582 s s
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, taken in conjunction with a Notice he had given of an Amendment in Clause 26, would practically alter the law of rating in Ireland as it had existed ever since the Poor Law was established in that country. That law of rating was that in the case of all tenements rated above £4 the pour rates were paid, one half by the landlord and the other half by the tenant; whereas in the case of all tenements at or below £4, the whole of the rates were paid by the immediate lessor, and no demand was ever made on the occupiers for poor rates, That principle had worked very satisfactorily, and it practically exempted from the payment of poor rates the greater number of persons who were unable to pay them. That system got rid of the difficulty in the way of the collection of rates which existed in many instances both in England and Scotland, and he believed the day was not far distant when some such system—he was then speaking only in regard to the collection of rates—would be adopted for the entire United Kingdom. The great closeness between the rates struck and the
 1583
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he thought the proposal ought to be limited to boroughs, and believed his right hon. Friend the Member for Portarlington (Mr. Lawson) was quite willing that it should be so limited. Thus altered, the noble Earl the Chief Secretary for Ireland had given no sufficient reason for opposing it. It was true that was not a very large question, but that fact told both ways; and in speaking of the great disturbance the
 1584
 MR. VANCE  said, that on the second; reading of the Bill, the late Chief Secretary for Ireland entirely approved the principle of the proposed borough franchise for Ireland. Occupiers at and under £4 would not wish to have the franchise on the condition of paying rates, and the Amendment before the Committee would be regarded in Ireland among all the parties concerned as a breach of faith.
 MR. MURPHY  said, that the consequence of retaining these words in the clause would be to do great injustice to five large towns in Ireland. It would disenfranchise the occupiers of 319 tenements in Cork alone, and practically fix the rating qualification at £4 10 s
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Member for Portarlington (Mr. Lawson) whether he was prepared to accept the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) with respect to limiting his Amendment to the case of boroughs?
 MR. LAWSON  was understood to answer in the affirmative.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that if the Amendment were adopted, it would lead to much confusion, as well as open the door to fraud and corruption, inasmuch as the very poor class of householders could never pay the rates for themselves.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, that the operation to which the noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland now so much objected, he had himself proposed to carry out with regard to no less than two-thirds of the whole of the voting population of boroughs.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, that all the Government were proposing to do was to assimilate the law of rating all over Ireland, so that a principle which had been found by experience to act well might prevail in counties and boroughs alike. The proposal that came from the other side was to compel occupiers of houses in boroughs to pay rates and to leave those in counties exempt.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, this clause did, not follow a single principle which had been laid down with respect to the English Bill. A most inconvenient "hard and fast line" would be imposed by it. The proposition of the Government was to give every man a vote who was rated over £4, and the Amendment was to give every man a vote who was rated at £4. In Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Belfast, and Waterford, those who occupied tenements valued under £8 paid no rates and the Government proposed to give every man in those towns a vote who was rated at more than £4. In other words, in giving a man a right to vote they put upon him the hard condition that he should submit himself to a rate to which he was not now liable. This would apply to eight-tenths of those admitted to the franchise. Why not accept the convenient figure of £4? By this clause, the noble Lord was inflicting a great hardship on eight-tenths of those admitted to the franchise.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he proposed that this and the two following clauses should be postponed, in order that the Government might have the opportunity of considering the suggestion which had been made to-night. He proposed, however, to go on with Clause 13, and to accept the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Portarlington (Mr. Lawson) so as to do away with the Boundary Commissioners.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he did not understand why Clause 13 should not be postponed also.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he would explain that when they came to the clause.
 MR. BAGWELL  inquired what the Government proposed with regard to this clause?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that with the permission of the Committee, he would explain the course the Government meant to take with respect to the question of boundaries. He was sure the Committee felt it would be a matter of great convenience if any inquiry into the question of boundaries could be dispensed with. There was really, as he would show, no necessity for any extensive alteration of the Parliamentary limits of boroughs. He found that in fourteen out of the thirty-three boroughs in Ireland the Parliamentary boundaries were the same as the municipal boundaries. These boroughs were Armagh, Carlow, Clonmel, Tralee, Wexford, Bandon, Dungannon, Ennis, Enniskillen, Kinsale, Mallow, New Ross, Portarlington, and Youghal. In these fourteen cases they would be disposed to leave the boundaries as they were, being the same for municipal and Parliamentary purposes. In a considerable number of them the population had
 1587 1588
 MR. LAWSON  said, he would withdraw the latter portion of the clause of which he had given Notice. He had not intended that it should apply to the boundaries of existing Parliamentary boroughs, but introduced it to meet the case of Kingstown if it should get a Member.
 GENERAL DUNNE : What does the right hon. Member for Portarlington (Mr. Lawson) really want?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said that the general principle on which the Government proposed to act in cases where the municipal now exceeded the Parliamentary boundaries was to extend the latter so as make them conterminous with the former.
 MR. GREGORY , in the absence of Mr. G. MORRIS, moved an Amendment, having for its object to except from the operation of the clause the towns of Carrickfergus, Drogheda, and Galway, and the cities of Cork, Kilkenny, Limerick, and Waterford.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that when the English Reform Bill was under discussion he voted for an Amendment having a similar object with regard to certain places in England to that of the Amendment now proposed by the hon. Member in favour of certain Irish boroughs; but the agents on both sides were now of opinion that it would have been better to provide additional polling places.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped that the noble Earl the Chief Secretary for Ireland would not assent to the Amendment. He thought the exception made last year in the English Bill was of doubtful policy; but the Amendment now proposed did not rest even on the same ground. The boroughs included in it were not, he presumed, of the extent of Manchester or Liverpool.
 MR. G. MORRIS , who had entered the House after his Amendment had been proposed, said, that some parts of the Parliamentary borough of Galway were seven or eight miles from the town. If voters living at that distance were not conveyed to the poll by car they would in winter have to start from home before daylight in order to vote at an election. If expenses of conveyance were allowed at all, they ought to be allowed in boroughs comprising a large rural district. He hoped the Government would agree to his Amendment.
 MR. MURPHY  said, that although the Parliamentary boundary of the city of Cork extended for seven English miles, no polling places were allowed beyond the limits of the municipal boundary. He would suggest that in Cork and similar places the candidates should be allowed to convey to the poll voters who lived beyond the municipal boundary. The only other way of meeting the difficulty would be to create additional polling places: but his own opinion was that adopting such a course would lead to inconvenience;
 MR. SYNAN  said, that these county towns were really districts of counties, and it would be impossible to provide polling places for the sparse population scattered over them. The candidates for such districts should be allowed to provide cars for voters, as the candidates for counties were allowed to do.
 SIR HENRY WINSTON-BARRON  said, that as the representative of one of the boroughs affected by the Amendment, he was quite sure that candidates for these places would rather not have the privilege of increasing the expenses of their election in this way. He could speak feelingly, for he knew the extravagance and imposition which attended this form of expenditure. He hoped the Committee would reject the Amendment. Those voters who wished to come in and vote were perfectly able to do so.
 COLONEL TOTTENHAM  said, he wished for a clear explanation of how the Amendment would operate. Would candidates be debarred from paying the travelling expenses of voters who happened to be away in the country?
 MR. PIM  said, that with regard to the remarks of the hon. Member for Waterford (Sir Henry Winston-Barron), though his (Mr. Pim's) election had cost a great deal of money, he had found the carmen of Dublin less inclined to imposition than many in a higher social position. Still he doubted not that the voters in outlying districts always contrived somehow to attend every fair and market in the borough, and he did not see why they should not he left to find their way to the poll. Scarcely any of them were without a horse.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, that many of the electors in these boroughs were poor men, who could not afford to pay the expense of a cart, especially as carters demanded higher terms at election time. Unless the candidates were allowed to pay these expenses a number of voters would practically not be allowed to exercise the franchise. The exception made in favour of certain English boroughs ought to be extended to analogous cases in Ireland.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, he thought Dungarvan should be included in the Amendment, as if comprised a large rural district.
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, he had no objection to strike out Waterford and insert Dungarvan, since the hon. Member for the former town (Sir Henry Winston-Barron) seemed to have a painful recollection of the impositions which had been practised upon him.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, it was ridiculous to suppose that Galway voters were unable to walk five miles. They frequently walked such a distance to
 1591
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  had learnt, since he recently addressed the Committee, that the five polling places in Galway were all in the city, whereas in the English boroughs they were so distributed that no voter had to walk more than two miles or two and a half. It was manifestly unjust to expect voters to walk five miles.
 SIR HENRY WINSTON-BARRON  said, that he objected to the clause alto-gather, as subjecting candidates to imposition, and not merely to its application to Waterford.
 MR. GREGORY  said, the discussion ought not to turn on the virtues or vices of carmen. He thought the fault of the Amendment was that it went on a general principle, regardless of the particular circumstances of each borough. Drogheda, for instance, had an area of only 5,000 statute acres. He thought the Amendment was defective, inasmuch as it proposed to except small as well as large boroughs. In places of great size, like Limerick, which comprehended 33,000 acres, he thought that exception might fairly be allowed.
 MR. WHITWORTH  said, that the Amendment if carried would only be a temptation to bribery and corruption.
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, he was willing to omit Waterford as well as Drogheda from the Amendment.
 MR. VANCE  said, he did not know why Dublin should not be one of the excepted places, especially as Dublin was itself a county. The better course would be to strike out the clause altogether and allow these expenses to be paid where they were not paid corruptly.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he thought that this clause was a very peddling way of dealing with bribery and corruption. That question could not be satisfactorily dealt with in a clause such as this, nor could a clause be framed to carry out even the limited object at present in view if justice were to be done to the peculiarities of different boroughs.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, it appeared from a Parliamentary Return that out of ten boroughs in England exceeding thirty square miles in extent, only two were exempted. He objected altogether to the exemption of Drogheda which had an area of but nine square miles.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he was of opinion that their principle should be to diminish the expenses of candidates, and then they would not get a corrupt House of Commons. The proper remedy for the evil complained of was the increase of polling places. That was the only way to grapple with the question of candidates' expenses. He would divide the boroughs into districts and establish polling places in each. He would have additional polling places even where there were only three or four voters. Why should electors have to go five or six miles to record their votes?
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, that at present it was no easy thing in Ireland to establish a number of new polling places, though it might be easy to pass an Act to effect that object. A good deal of formality had to be gone through before they could be erected; and the inhabitants of the neighbourhood in which the polling places were usually situated would always oppose with the utmost violence the granting of any new polling places by the Quarter Sessions, because their sale of whisky would thereby be effected. But it was a mistake to suppose that the expanses of the candidates would be diminished by an increase in the number of polling places. Booths must be erected, each candidate must have an agent and a polling clerk at every polling place, and in fact the remedy would be worse than the evil.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he thought that if the House was in earnest on this subject of Parliamentary Reform in Ireland there ought to be no hesitation in dealing with the question now before the Committee. If they decided upon granting the suffrage to the Irish people, they ought to give all possible facilities for the exercise of the voting power. Those facilities ought not, however, to be provided at the expense of the candidates, but of the public; and even if carriages were necessary for the conveyance of voters to the poll, these also ought to be provided at the public cost. Additional; polling places were provided in the English Reform Bill, and if, being necessary in Ireland, they were not provided by the Legislature, what would the Irish Reform Bil be worth after all? There were numbers of places in England much larger than those in Ireland for which exemptions were now sought, and, in his opinion, exceptions ought only to be made in extreme cases.
 MR. MURPHY  said, ha was of opinion
 1593
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he could not consent to withdraw the clause which was framed on the English Act. The best course that the Committee could adopt was to follow the precedent of the English Act as a general rule, but he admitted that there were cases in which such a rule would be equivalent to depriving residents outside the municipal boundaries of their votes. Under these circumstances he proposed to omit the boroughs of Drogheda, Kilkenny, and Waterford from the clause, leaving Limerick, Galway, and Cork under its operation. He did not think the plan suggested by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Murphy) would work satisfactorily. It would only lend to difficulties if one portion of the voters of a borough were subject to a different law from those who lived in another portion of it.
 MR. BRADY  said, though car hire was of some importance, Reform in Ireland was more important. They could not introduce corruption into a borough more readily than by sanctioning the payment of car hire. In his opinion the constituency ought to pay the expenses of conveying voters to the poll.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no sensible man could entertain a doubt with regard to Drogheda. In the English Bill of last year an exception was made in favour of four places, which were called boroughs, but were to all intents and purposes more like counties than boroughs. If an exception was made with regard to Irish boroughs they ought to be in the same category as the places to which he had alluded, otherwise the rule that had been laid down by Parliament would be broken through. Cork was the only borough which came within that rule.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that he proposed to limit the exception to three towns—Cork, Limerick, and Galway. They were the largest in extent of any in Ireland. Cork had an area of 70,000 acres. Limerick 33,000, and Galway 34,000. The case in their favour had been very much pressed, and he thought it would be better to conclude the matter by making an exception in their regard.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that if twenty-
 1594
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, that in the borough which he represented there were voters living at a distance of five Irish miles, which was equivalent to something like seven English miles, from the only polling place in the borough; and to have to walk that distance to and from the poll was no slight matter. He should divide the Committee with regard to Galway.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, that until he was persuaded that an Irishman could not walk so far as an Englishman he must oppose the Amendment. The largest of the boroughs contained only 47,965 acres, while the smallest of the boroughs excepted in England contained 51,246.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that in his opinion no case had been made out except on behalf of Cork, for Gal nay comprised thirty-five and Limerick forty one square miles, so that if the polling place were central voters could be only about three miles from it.
 MR. SYNAN  said, that the polling place was at one extremity of the borough, and this made all the difference.
 MR. VANCE  said, that nearly all the counties of cities and towns in Ireland had been exempted from the operation of the clause except Dublin, It was true Dublin was not of a large area; but the Parliamentary boundary extended several miles beyond the municipal boundary, and there were many more voters, who would have to go six or seven miles to the poll. He should move, therefore, that Dublin be added to the list of exemptions, and he was sure the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Pim) would support him.
 MR. PIM  said, he would do no such thing. It was true that Dublin deserved to be exempted as much as Cork or Limerick, but as he was opposed to the exemption of those places he could not agree to include Dublin.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not press his Amendment, which there was nothing in the circumstances of Dublin to justify.
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  said, he thought the noble Lord had made out a strong case, and as he (Mr. P. Dawson) was well acquainted with the locality he would give him his support.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, if there was to be any payment at all it should be the payment of 1 d
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  suggested, as a way of getting over the difficulty, that there should be a rider, making the bridge free on polling days, as Chelsea Bridge was thrown open on Sundays.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he thought it would be necessary to insert words restricting the payment for conveyance to the case of voters brought from places within the Parliamentary borough, or else it might include voters brought from the Continent. He would move to add words to that effect on the Report.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he thought the proposed alteration would be very disadvantageous, and that it would be much better to assimilate the law in boroughs to that in force with regard to counties. There was no reason why there should be a distinction between them. It was desirable to get rid of fictitious notices, sent in by mere political agents, and often signed without the knowledge of the person, on whose behalf they were ostensibly made. The public were put to great expense in respect to fictitious claims, there being no power to give costs against those who resorted to the practice.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that if an agent were permitted to sign a notice, it should be provided that he should be required to prove that he had received authority to act as agent. Otherwise a political agent might of his own accord send in claims for half a county on the plea that he was acting "on behalf" of the persons concerned.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, such an Amendment as that had always been steadily opposed in England, because its practical effect would be that a political agent would sign any number of claims without the parties hearing a word of the matter, and when once he got their names on the register he would regard them as his voters, and they would never escape from him.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. MURPHY  said, that there was no penalty against a clerk of the Union for omitting the name of a qualified person from a list of electors. He begged to direct the attention of the Chief Secretary for Ireland to the subject in order that a remedy might be provided.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, the offenders could be called to account by the Poor Law Commissioners.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that as proposed by the clause, the rate in certain boroughs was to be made on the immediate lessor, where the value of the property was not more than £4, and it would be a very hard case if the lessee, through the act of the immediate lessor, should be deprived of his right to vote.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  suggested that the clause should stand for the present, and he would bring up a new clause.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY : It is better to postpone it.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : In regard to the ensuing election, it would be necessary to pass a temporary clause relating to the position of the voters this year, while this clause will refer to them in future. There is no necessity for postponing this clause.
 THE CHAIRMAN  put the Question that the clause stand part of the Bill.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  proposed to add a proviso, to the effect that the occupants of land or tenements in a borough rated at the net annual value of less than £8, and more than £4, should be entitled to be put on the register and vote at the election of Members of Parliament, notwithstanding the immediate lessor should not have been rated,
 THE CHAIRMAN : The Question has been put that the clause stand part of the Bill.
 COLONEL FRENCH  asked when the now clauses would be brought up and the consideration of the Bill resumed. He gave Notice that as soon as the postponed clauses were disposed of he should ask the House to adopt in the Irish counties a franchise of £8 instead of £12.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think it is due to the right hon. and gallant Gentleman, and also to the importance of the question generally, that no time should be lost in coming to a conclusion upon this question of the Irish representation, and therefore I will remove the Order which I had arranged for Thursday, and will put this Bill first for that day.
 MR. GLADSTONE : No doubt, Sir, the Motion just made by the right hon. Gentleman is one that is agreeable to the usage of the House at a certain period of the year; and that time is generally fixed by a reference to the amount of Business before the House in the hands of the Government, by the general views of the House as to the termination of the Session, and by the amount of Business also before us in the hands of private Members. As far as I am aware, I know of no reason connected with any of these topics to prevent us from acceding to this Motion; and if it should happen that there is any Bill in the hands of a private Member that it is desirable to send forward, which would be impeded by this arrangement, I have, no doubt the Government will be glad to take it into their consideration. But I wish, in giving a cheerful assent to this Motion, to say one word. I trust the right hon. Gentleman will adhere with some rigour—and, perhaps, with greater rigour of construction than he seems disposed to adopt—to the rule that we should make it our main object to progress with the Bills relating to Parliamentary Reform. It is obvious that when we enter into Committee on the Irish Reform Bill, which I trust will not take a long time—although it
 1570
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to know, Whether any Morning Sittings would he devoted by the Government to discussions on the Army Estimates?
 SIR HENRY WINSTON-BARRON  said, he would suggest that the Irish Reform Bill should he passed through Committee before any new Business was entered upon.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that on Thursday week, when the Votes now reported were taken, he took occasion to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer for what period the Government proposed to take Supplies, The right hon. Gentleman was not in a position to answer him then; but on Monday night he stated that he proposed to take them for twelvemonths. It was not his (Mr. Childers') intention to make any objection to Supplies being taken for that period; but be wished to point out that the arguments adduced by the right hon. Gentleman on that occasion would, if accepted as valid, establish a precedent which might be dangerous on future occasions.
 1603 1604 1605
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  assured the hon. Gentleman that he had not intended to make any remarks to which exception could be justly taken. He believed that the words he had used on a former occasion would not bear the interpretation which the hon. Gentleman had put upon them. He had merely said, "Why should the frank and honourable course pursued in 1841 be departed from now?" In that year the Leader of the Government in the House of Commons stated openly the intention of the Government to call a new Parliament, and the Leader of the Opposition accepted that statement and relied upon it most implicitly. He certainly was of opinion that a like course should be taken now, and that the statement of the Government ought to be accepted without question. He was still unable to agree with his hon. Friend that the precedent of 1841 was applicable to the present case, because the House then determined that the ordinary Business should not be carried on until the autumnal Session, and therefore there was an opportunity towards the close of the year of proceeding with the regular Business; and
 1606
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the House would observe that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) were perfectly at one with regard to their practical conclusion, and it might, therefore, be deemed unnecessary that he should prolong the conversation; but the principle involved has of great importance, and it was even possible that the proceedings of the present Session might be hereafter referred to as a precedent. Therefore it was expedient that not only should a certain line be taken, but the reasons for that line should be recorded. He agreed with his hon. Friend that it was on the whole convenient that Supply should be voted for the entire financial year; but he felt bound to demur to the reasons which had been urged by the right hon. Gentleman in favour of the adoption of such a course the right hon. Gentleman had asserted that the dissolution in 1841 ought to be regarded rather as an interruption of the Government with a view to the resumption of Business in the autumn. But this was not by any means the case, as, in point of fact, the ordinary Business was not resumed during the autumnal Session, Nothing was done in the way of what might be termed ordinary business except the passing of a Bill about the Bishop of Jerusalem. Then, the importance of the precedent of 1830 did not seem to be duly appreciated by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That precedent showed, in reality, that the principle of voting Supplies for a; limited period was the deference paid to the authority of the new Parliament by the expiring Parliament. He was not at all; prepared to admit the distinction drawn; by the right hon. Gentleman, for he did not think the Constitution recognized anything but this—that when an adverse vote was given on any vital point the Government had the power of dissolving, or might elect to resign. He would not go into the question of what were the particular reasons that justified the alternative of a dissolu-
 1607
 MR. E. POTTER  said, he wished to call attention to the mode adopted of remunerating those persons who examined art collections for the South Kensington Museum. He had been invited to examine a certain collection which the Heads of the Department thought of purchasing; and after sending in his Report he received a cheque for £5 5 s
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the Examiners of King's College and other Colleges, and the Examiners in the Science and Art Department at South Kensington, were not paid out of this Vote. They received no salaries, but only fees in proportion to the number of students they examined. The Vote last year was exceeded, and this year the number of schools examined and of pupils presented for examination had very much increased This year 300 science schools were examined in different subjects of science,
 1608
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he wished to draw attention to the item of £6,070 for "robes, collars, and badges." He thought that persons who received Orders ought to pay for their own investiture. He believed, however, that English Orders were sent to some countries in which they were not appreciated as much as we might suppose. At all events, he thought it was monstrous to call on the taxpayers of the county, in one year, to disburse so large a sum for ornaments, for whomsoever they were intended, or whether they were prized or not. As this item had been £1,500 on the average for some years past, he moved the reduction of the Vote by the sum of £4,500.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, it was quite true that the average of the item for robes, collars, and badges had been about £2,000 for some years past; but at intervals of a few years a larger amount was required in order to replenish the stock of decorations. Of the item of £6,070, a sum of £1,500 was to replace the decorations which had been distributed to Knights of the Bath. He admitted that the largest portion of the item objected to by the hon. Member was not very regularly placed in the Votes for this year. It ought rather to have appeared in those of last year; but the account for this service last year had not been rendered in sufficient time to put them in the Votes of the Session of 1867, or even in the Vote for Civil Contingencies presented in March last. A sum of £3,000 was for investing the Sultan, the Emperor of Russia, the Emperor of Austria, and Prince Arthur, with the Order of the Garter. He might observe, too, that some few years ago Her Majesty had been pleased to dispense with the statutes which required the heirs of deceased knights to return the decorations of the Orders, as it was thought desirable that these decorations should he left as heirlooms in the families of the knights.
 MR. GUILDERS  said, that the portion of the item which was for expenses properly chargeable last year ought to have been included in the Vote for Civil Contingencies.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he had already explained why it had not been so included.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought that the term of twelve years was too long for the tenure of office by members of the India Council. Under the East India Company directors went out every four years and could not be re-elected for a year. The civil servants in India, some of whom returned to England every year, were thoroughly acquainted with the change which
 1600
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought it objectionable that the Governor General should have power to introduce Natives of India into the higher branches of the service without proper provision being made to test their capabilities and qualifications. With regard to the Uncovenanted Service, he took a similar view to that of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). Of the civil servants in that brunch, 75 per cent were European adventurers, ignorant of the languages of India, and usually the protegées of men in Office.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that on the lodger franchise being considered last year it was thought impossible that the overseers should make out the list of lodgers, and that it was necessary that lodgers should make their own claims. The fear that lodgers who had made a claim would waste much time in waiting on the Revising Barrister for fear their claim should be disputed had no foundation; a certain day would be appointed for lodgers to prove their claim, and objectors would be heard on that day and no other. He did not think the objections raised by the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) were to any extent insurmountable, and he had no doubt the Select Committee would soon find a way to meet them.
 MR. MELLY  said, he thought that no
 1614
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman was rather unreasonable. The Bill was a hybrid Bill, and notices had been duly given in the Irish papers. Its objects were to make better provision for the preservation of the Curragh, and to appoint a Commission to ascertain the rights of the parties interested.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that Her Majesty had graciously signified her intention of reviewing the Volunteer Force in Windsor Great Park on Saturday. As it was desirable that there should be as large an attendance as possible, he wished to know, Whether it is intended to give the gentlemen engaged in the Government Offices who are Volunteers a holiday on Saturday, in order that they may have an opportunity of going to Windsor? If the Government set the example by giving the holiday, it would be followed, he trusted, by employers in the metropolis.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he hoped there would be power given to the Committee to examine witnesses. The Bill was a very good Bill; but it contained points requiring alteration. If one or two Revising Barristers, one or two county clerks, and one or two parliamentary agents were examined some difficulties which had been
 1617
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the statement in the  Builder
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE : Was Mr. Barry's protest received before or after Mr. Street's appointment?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, in reply, that the Privy Council Report had been delayed in consequence of the great number of chromo-lithographs which it was to contain, and in consequence of the work of lithography occupying much more time than he had anticipated. With regard to the Smallpox Hospital he had to say that he had seen the Report alluded to; but in consequence of the great number of cases he feared that the operation of vaccination must have been performed very imperfectly
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, there could be no objection to this being done. He believed that 260 pages had already been printed.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU , in reply, said, the delay complained of arose from the immense mass of matter to be translated. As soon as the translations were prepared, they were forwarded to the Foreign Office, in which Department the responsibility of printing the papers rested.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, When the Return relating to Electric Telegraphs ordered by this House on the 21st April will be presented; and what is the cause of the delay in preparing this Return, and the annual Returns relating to Railway Companies?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when the question of the Government of India was under discussion some ten years ago it was evident that it was the intention of Parliament that it should be at liberty to reconsider the mode in which the Council at home should be appointed, and the time at which their offices were to expire. He could not understand, therefore, why it was now proposed to grant the members of that Council pensions at once. The term of office which was suggested in their case by the Bill was in his opinion too long. The great object which it was desirable to attain he apprehended to be the introduction into the Council of men who had recently returned home from India, and who would be able to give the Secretary of State the benefit of the latest knowledge obtained in that country. That object could not, however, be secured if the members of the Council were to receive their appointments for a great number of years. He ventured to think that seven years would be ample time, and as the Council consisted of fifteen members, he would have two of them retire every year, so that a new element might thus constantly be introduced into that body, and that freshness communicated to it which it was of great importance, in his opinion, that it should possess. This plan would open a door for the employment soon after their return home of those who had served their country in India. He wished also to point out that the Under Secretary of State for India was not by law entitled to take any part in the proceedings of the Council, even in the absence of his chief from. London. That he regarded as a most anomalous and unsatisfactory state of things, and he should submit that as the Secretary of State was empowered to appoint eight out of the fifteen members, the eighth should be,  ex officio
 MR. AYRTON  suggested that the Bill should be put through Committee that night, then re-printed, and that a week should be allowed for the re-consideration of the Report.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped that when the Bill got into Committee the Secretary for India would offer some explanation respecting the power proposed; to be given to the Governor General to make laws for Natives of India wherever they might be, whether in India or in any other part of her Majesty's dominions. Hitherto this power had been limited in its application to Natives in India, and he wished to know why it was now to be extended. The provision in the Bill giving to the Lieutenant Governors of different Provinces very summary powers to make laws appeared to be a rather retrograde proceeding. The Bill provided for a difficulty—which now existed—in case of a difference between the Governor General and the majority of his Council; but it contained no provision to remedy an important defect in the present constitution of the Governor General's Council. Some further provision was requisite by which the Governor General should be empowered to conduct the ordinary business of government, by dividing his great administration into several Departments and playing one member of the Council at the head of each. The provision for introducing Natives into the permanent Civil Service required great consideration, for it was of no use subjecting candidates at home to stringent examinations if there was to be a back door in India by which the Governor General could usher Natives into the Civil Service. He thought it would be very much better to guarantee to the Natives that to which; they were clearly entitled—namely, the uncovenanted branches of the Civil Service. He was afraid that at present it was too much the practice for those in power to appoint their own dependents to this part of the service; and the result was that the Natives had little confidence in the manner in which public business was conducted.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Despatches from Abyssinia have yet been received; and, if not, whether he can account for the great delay in their transmission? If they have been received, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will be able to inform the House when he proposes to move the Vote of Thanks to Sir Robert Napier and the Army of Abyssinia?
 MR. LAYARD  said, the delay was a little remarkable. Was the right hon. Gentleman aware that there were some persons now in town who had been present at the taking of Magdala?
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has received any proposal from the Egyptian Government on the subject of a modification of the Capitulations, and the introduction of improved Law Courts in Egypt, to which all foreigners shall be amenable; whether such proposal, if made, has been entertained; and, whether he will lay upon the Table of the House, Copies of a Despatch on this subject addressed to Her Majesty's Consul General in Egypt in the month of October of last year; of a Note on the same subject communicated by the Egyptian Government to the European Powers; and of any other Correspondence relating to the Capitulations and Consular jurisdiction in Egypt? He wished also to know whether the Papers could be produced at an early period, the matter being of such importance
 1560
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the Despatches have not jet been received. Some portions of the Despatches have been received; but not the Despatch which ought to be placed before the House before the Vote of Thanks is moved, and which refers particularly to the recommendations of Sir Robert Napier as to the services of the individuals engaged. The moment the remaining Despatches are received they will be placed on the table, and the House will see that it is absolutely necessary to have them. When they are received, I will give Notice of a day for moving the Vote of Thanks.
 MR. DISRAELI : Notice, Sir, has already been given to all those engaged in Public Offices who are Volunteers, that their public services will not be required on Saturday next, in order that they may have an opportunity of attending the review. That Notice has been generally
 1567
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is always most agreeable to me to accommodate Gentlemen on both sides of the House who are
 1566
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think there are reasons why the arrangement which has been made should be adhered to at present; but I will certainly take care that the Committee on the Irish Reform Bill shall not be neglected.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that if the House assented to another Motion of which he had given Notice, and should meet at two o'clock to-morrow and sit till seven, as was done last Session, he proposed that the Public Schools Bill should be the first Business taken. That would not occupy, he thought, the whole, perhaps not even the greater part of the time, and he should be quite ready to proceed with the Irish Reform Bill in Committee after the Public Schools Bill had been disposed of.
 MR. DISRAELI : In answer, Sir, to the hon. Member for Plymouth (Mr. Morrison), I would just make one remark
 1568 1569
 MR. DISRAELI : I will take the inquiry of the hon. Gentleman as a suggestion, and I will consider it.
 MR. SAMUELSON  said, he would like to know if any delay had arisen in the Foreign Office?
 MR. SAMUELSON  said, he wished to ask the Vice-President of the Committee of Council on Education, What is the cause of the continued delay in the production of the information received from our Legations abroad on Scientific Instruction in foreign countries?
 MR. MONK  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the First Lord of the Treasury would appoint a Morning Sitting for the discussion of this Bill?
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he wished, in consequence of an Answer just given to a Question by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, in case the Committee on the Irish Reform Bill should not be finished that night, which was highly probable, he did not think it would be right to place it first on the Orders for Thursday?
 MR. PUGH  said, he hoped the House would not proceed with unnecessary precipitation in this matter. If ever there was a time for exercising due deliberation and caution it was now, when the country would have to manipulate three most important Acts conferring great privileges on the people. Therefore he objected to decapitating the revising tribunal. He objected to cutting off the head of the Common Fleas. He had every confidence in the legal ability of the Revising Barristers; but he was certain they would be glad to be supplemented by the learning of that high Court. And it would be satisfactory to the country to know that amid the changes and chances of electioneering life there was an august tribunal, unruffled by the popular breeze, to which the more difficult questions of their franchises could be referred—
 "Apparet Divum numen, sedesque beatæ, Quas neque concutiunt venti, neque nubila nimbis Aspergunt." celerius occidere festinatam maturitatem.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House the Report of a Commission or a Commissioner directed by his Grace the Postmaster General to inquire into the subject of a deduction of 25 per cent from the salaries of officers employed in the Irish Post Office, and to state any reason why that deduction was made in 1854, after a Minute of the then Postmaster General had stated that the salaries of the officials in London and Dublin should be the same?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that the hon. Member had been good enough to place in his hands samples of the publications of which he complained. The police authorities had also placed similar periodicals in his possession. The publications, although very bad in their character, were not of such a nature as to mate them liable to prosecution. They were merely sensational, and did not come within the provisions of Lord Campbell's Act, or they would be seized and destroyed. With respect to the theatrical representations referred to, he was informed that there was a great deal of exaggeration. With regard to those places that were known as "penny gaffs,"—the police had told him that those which they had visited the performances were not in themselves immoral, and therefore the authorities could not interfere. As to the publications, he begged to assure the hon. Member that if anything whatever could be done to counteract their tendency he should be happy to do so.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he was informed by the clerk to the magistrates in question that there was not sufficient evidence adduced before the Bench to justify a conviction. The circumstances appear to have been that the men down the mine disobeyed orders by not sending up the weight which should have been used to counterbalance the other shaft, and Hopley, therefore, would not send down the "doubles" to bring them up. The men below then procured "doubles" from another place, but Hopley gave them notice that he would not land them until they sent up the weight.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said that
 1618
 MR. LEEMAN  said, that as an old clerk of the pence—perhaps the only one in the House—he wished to congratulate the Government on their having brought forward this Bill, which he believed would effectually accomplish the object that both parties had in view. He could scarcely believe that the hon. Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) had read the Bill, or he would have seen that there was no interference with the preliminary stages of registration, and that it was not till the Revising Barrister came into play that them was any change in the periods allowed for the purposes of registration. The changes that had been made were such as he thought would effectually enable the clerks of the peace to have the register ready by the time required in order to have the elections in November. With regard to the lodger any defects in regard to his case might easily be remedied in Committee. They were all agreed that as the lodger was not rated he would not be put on the register without sending in his claim; but having done that, he would be put upon the register, and there ought to be no necessity for his appearing unless his claim were objected to, in which case there was no reason why he should not receive notice. There was no difficulty in the Bill that might not be remedied in Committee.
 MR. LEEMAN  explained that he was then referring to a proposition that came from his own side of the House, to have the elections in the middle of October.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, he understood that no reduction of 25 per cent ever was made from the salaries of the clerks in the Irish Post Office, nor was any Report of a Commission or Commissioner made to the Postmaster General on that subject. The supposed Minute of the Postmaster General did not exist. The question was probably founded upon the fact that there was a Treasury Commission which sat upon the salaries of the London Post Office officials, and which recommended that in the event of a rearrangement of the salaries of the Edinburgh and Dublin officials, similar alterations should be made, due regard being had to the relative cheapness of living in Dublin and Edinburgh as compared with living in London.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that he thought it was premature at present to form an opinion as to the necessity of changing the route for the Indian Mails. The subject was fully considered by a Select Committee which sat in 1866, and, anticipating the opening of the Fell Railway, a very elaborate Report was presented to the Post Office by Captain Tyler. On the settlement of the contract with the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Company last November, it was stipulated that the Brindisi route should be adopted in preference to Marseilles if circumstances rendered the change expedient. With regard to the latter part of the hon. Member's Question, he was informed that although the detention operated inconveniently for letters from London, this was not the case with respect to provincial letters, and that the present arrangement was most conve-
 1562
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : After his appointment.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, it was true that Mr. Barry had written a letter to the Treasury, which had been published that morning in the newspapers, protesting against the appointment of Mr. Street as architect of the Now Law Courts. This letter would be laid on the table, with other Correspondence on the same subject. With regard to an exhibition of the designs of the New Law Courts in the Library of the House, he might remark that the designs had already been on view for six months in Lincoln's Inn, and that no object would be gained by another exhibition in the Library.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any Correspondence has taken place between the Foreign Office and the Treasury on the subject of the amount of compensation to be granted to Foreign Office Agents in the event of their agencies being abolished; and, if so, whether he has any objection to lay such Correspondence upon the Table of the House?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to call attention to another point. He was advised by a barrister well fitted to give an opinion that in thickly-populated counties, such as Middlesex, where many persons had qualifications in one district and their place of business in another, in which latter they would vote, a poll could not he got there as the Bill stood in one day. Under Clause 6, the numbers in each polling district would begin with 1, so that throughout the county there would be many of a particular number; but those who voted in a polling-place other than the district where their qualification was situated would have no number at all. Supposing a quarter of the constituency were in that position, and assuming the constituency of Middlesex to number 20,000, there would be 5,000 without numbers; and how would it be possible for the poll clerks, without a numerical list to guide them, to find the name of any such person who presented himself? He trusted this point would be considered by the Committee. Moreover, under Clause 15, claims might be made until; the 25th of August; but the Act of last year altered the day for making objections from the 25th of August to the 20th, consequently there would he no opportunity of objecting to persons who might send in claims between the 20th and the 25th.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that when introducing the Bill his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for India stated it to be his intention, in the event of its passing, to propose that the accounts of Indian expenditure should be dealt with in the same way as the Imperial accounts, in the respect that they should be submitted to the Standing Committee on Public Accounts appointed every year by the House. Before that was done, however, it was, in his opinion, desirable that that Committee should have an opportunity of considering the whole of the arrangements which the Government meant to make for the audit of Indian accounts. It was intended that the auditor of those accounts should stand in an independent relation to the Secretary of State for India, and that the audit should be one of a real and effectual character; but his impression was that the auditor at the India Office held some other appointment, that so far he could not fairly be called an independent officer, and that the audit was reduced to something like a mere shadow. What he should under those circumstances suggest was, that before any further action was taken in the matter the whole question of the audit of Indian accounts should he referred to the Committee on Public Accounts, so that it might be dealt with thoroughly previous to the third reading of the Bill. Proposals had been made to the effect that there should be an independent auditing of those accounts, as in the case of the Imperial accounts.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to know, Whether the Electric Telegraphs Bill would be taken on Thursday?
 MR. DODSON  said, it would be important to have the House meet, if possible, at even an earlier date than was proposed. He thought it not desirable to shorten the time for making claims, nor the time for the Revising Barristers revising those claims. The object should be to gain time after the Revising Barristers had given their decision. At present, the clerks of the peace were allowed two months to make up the registers; under the Bill only from the 7th to the end of October. This time might be considerably shortened. The registers might be made up and completed in a week or ten days after the last day of the revision. All that was wanted was an increase in the staff of clerks in the office of the county clerks. All knew the rapidity with which the debates were taken down in that House late at night, copied, and printed, so as to be ready for transmission by the early trains. At all events the time might be shortened considerably. And this was the point to which the attention of the Select Committee should be directed. A list of persons entitled to the franchise, according to the information which reached the overseers, was published, according to law, on the 31st of July. This he would not interfere with. But in counties claims on the part of ratepayers omitted from the list were to be sent in by the 20th of August; in boroughs by the 25th of August. He could not see why the two things should not be assimilated by making the date in both the 20th of August. The overseers were allowed now to the 1st of September to copy out and fix the lists of objections on the church doors. He did not see why four or five days would not be enough for that work, and thus there would be a saving of a week; the Revising Barristers would be able to commence their duties on the 7th instead of the 14th of September, and, allowing them three weeks, their task would be completed by the 28th of September, and the registers might be published by the 5th of October. Allowing a week for the copies to be made, everything might be completed by the 12th of October, when the writs might be issued, and, allowing an interval of twenty-eight days, as proposed by the Government, the new Parliament might be brought together by the 9th or 10th of November.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home
 1559
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the case of a man named Hopley, who having been summoned before the Magistrates at the instance of Mr. Wynne, the Inspector of Mines for the Staffordshire district, for having refused to bring up a gang of Colliers from the Madeley Court Colliery when required to do so, had dismissed the summons; and whether the reasons had been given which induced the Magistrates to dismiss the summons?
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the Act of last year required the lodger to appear before the Revising Barrister, and substantiate his claim by proving the value of his lodging and the other conditions which he had to satisfy. The service of a notice of objection would thus make no difference, for under any circumstances he was bound to attend the Court, whereas the ordinary voter was placed upon the register by the overseer and had no need to attend unless objected to.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he thought the point relating to lodgers a very serious one. Unless the lodger franchise was to be merely nominal, the law ought to require that notices should be served upon them when their right to vote was objected to; for otherwise, though the greater portion of them would be poor men, they would have to attend the Court from the very beginning of the revision to the end, in order to know whether they were objected to or not. Knowing this, very few of them would register at all. The obstacles in the way of the lodger were much greater than in the way of any other class, for instead of being put on the register by
 1612
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he agreed with his hon. Friend in thinking that seven years was a sufficiently long period for the tenure of office in the case of members of the Council; but he would suggest that there should he a power of re-appointment, because, while it was desirable to bring in those whose information was fresh, it would often be a great disadvantage to the Council to lose the services of some particular Member. Instead of two members being obliged to retire every year, one of the two might be eligible for re-appointment.
 MR. KENDALL  was sorry if he had misunderstood the hon. Gentleman. He confessed that he could not understand why Her Majesty's Government had shortened the time at all. There were many hon. Members who, like himself, had supported
 1615 "Resolved, that in the opinion of this meeting it is not practicable to accelerate the preliminary stages of the registration prior to the day (the 1st of September) prescribed for the delivery of the lists by the overseers to the clerks of the peace, except at the cost of depriving of the franchise a certain class of persons on whom the right to vote has been newly conferred. 2. That this year, if extra exertions were used to obtain the delivery of the lists punctually by the 1st of September, it might be arranged for the Courts of the Revising Barristers to commence not later than the 21st of September, as an interval of at least twenty-one days is requisite for collating the lists, extracting the claims and objections for the guidance of the Revising Barrister, and the appointment and advertising of the Courts; and that such Courts should terminate by the 17th of October. That by extra exertion and expense the printing of the registers for delivery to the sheriff might be effected by the 30th of November; but that, having regard to the length of registers in the more populous counties, the printing and binding could not be executed at an earlier date; and that the meeting believed it to be extremely doubtful whether the printing could in some counties be completed by the day suggested, if the names were to be numbered consecutively throughout as at present."
 MR. KENDALL  admitted that the authority of the hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) as an old clerk of the peace was very high; but the hon. Member had himself convinced him on a former occasion that an election at the time proposed was impossible.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, with reference to the discussion in the House of Commons on the 23rd of July last, If any authoritative decision has been given by the Spanish Tribunals in the case of the  Tornado;
 MR. M'LAGAN  said, he should oppose the Motion on the grounds that the Report of the chemists to whom the Bill had been referred was directly opposed to that of the Committee of last year, and that certain Amendments had been lately put on the Paper which altered the character of the Bill, and made the igniting point lower than under the present Act, He moved that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he had voted in two places without a number, and therefore there could be no practical difficulty with regard to the absence of the number. As to the lodger being obliged to "dance attendance day by day in the registration booth," all he could say was that he had himself proved that any voter himself on the register could defend any other person claiming the franchise. He had done it himself. If so, the lodger must be a most unfortunate individual if he could not get a neighbour to defend his claim in the Revising Barrister's Court. The thanks of the House were due to the Government for bringing in the Bill, and for their statement that they would secure a General Election as soon as possible. What object could there be in delaying the dissolution till January? There was great discontent out-of-doors at the prospect of delay in the assembling of the new Parliament. Trade was partially paralyzed, and therefore the sooner the present state of suspense was put an end to the better.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he hoped the Under Secretary would not consent either to withdraw the Bill or to refer it to a Select Committee. He was quite satisfied that the point of 100 which had been agreed on would be a sufficient protection to the public.
 MR. MORRISON  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have misunderstood the Question which he bad addressed to him a few moments before. He by no means wished to convey the idea that the Government were not anxious to proceed with the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill. On the contrary, he was quite convinced of the sincerity of their intentions in the matter, and he knew that there was a large number of Members on the Liberal side of the House who were equally desirous that they should go on with it.
 MR. MORRISON  said, he would beg to ask, When the Government intended to bring on again the Election Petitions and Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill; and also, if they were to have Morning Sittings?
 MR. COGAN  objected to the Bill being read a second time at so late an hour, and without explanation.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would beg to ask, If the Reports received from the Secretaries of Legation could not be laid on the Table at once, leaving the other documents to follow as soon as ready?
 MR. BAINES  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that neither in this Bill nor in the Reform Act of last year was there any provision for the serving of notices of objection on lodgers, who consequently would not know until they went
 1610
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he thought the Bill demanded most serious consideration. It was agreed on both sides of the House that an early dissolution was desirable; but the question arose, what was necessary and what unnecessary delay? To decide on this question, he appealed to a great principle, which he proposed to lay before the House. The next Parliament would be the most important ever yet elected by the English people; and this he said without fear of contradiction. Parliament had resolved on making the greatest change in the Constitution ever resolved on since Parliament had existed the change might be described as a statutory revolution, because it transferred political power from a mixture of classes to at least a body in which one class preponderated. He would not take as certain the opinion of the wisest man in the country, as to what the next Parliament would be; no one could speculate with accuracy upon it; they were, indeed, taking a leap in the dark. The next Parliament might
 1613
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, it was admitted on all hands that some legislation on the subject was necessary. The substances proposed to be dealt with by the Bill were of a very dangerous character; and these oils were used in lamps sold at a very cheap rate, and used to a great extent by poor people. Great precautions were therefore necessary. The Bill was originally framed in accordance with the recommendations of the Select Committee of last Session; but it being urged by various deputations that the test proposed was too rigorous, the question was referred to chemists representing both sides, and to the chemist generally consulted by the War Office. The recommendations of these gentlemen had been adopted in their integrity, and he believed the measure as now settled would ensure perfect surety. The modifications which had been made would effect the same end as the more rigorous test originally pro-
 1620
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Privy Council on Education, Whether he has observed in the Annual Report of the Smallpox Hospital just issued the increase in vaccinated cases from 66·7 per cent in the epidemic of 1851–2 to 84·1 percent in 1867, and how this is accounted for; and, when the Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, which Members were informed they might calculate on having in their hands immediately after the Easter Recess, will be delivered?
 MR. GORST  said, he must ask for a longer time for the consideration. The Bill might either be postponed or referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he would remind the hon. Member for East Cornwall (Mr. Kendall) that no alteration had been made in the time allowed for the preliminary stages of registration, and that it was to those stages that the objections of the clerks of the peace chiefly applied. The work of the Revising Barrister, could be accelerated by the appointment of addi-
 1616
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the main principle of the Bill was to provide for the service in the India Council of a succession of men coming fresh from India. There were various ways in which that might be done, and when the Bill went into Committee he would discuss the several propositions which had been made; and be prepared to state why, on the whole, he thought the proposal in the Bill the most convenient. In a Council of fifteen members, each employed for twelve years, there would probably be rather more than one new appointment per annum, and, allowing for vacancies, there might be two appointments in every three years. A man trained a great deal of experience in the India Council, and often got more complete views of Indian business after being a year there than he had when first appointed. He should be perfectly ready to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), and to refer the mode of auditing the Indian accounts to the Committee on Public Accounts, who, after considering the subject, might make such recommendations as they thought desirable. Though the position of the auditor might be unsatisfactory in respect to his
 1601
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  admitted the propriety of the suggestion that Papers bearing on the question ought to be produced. He had laid before the House Papers relating to the administration of Bengal, which ranged to a considerable extent over the more important questions raised by the Bill; but there were Papers relating to the appointment of Natives which it was desirable the House should be in possession of before passing the Bill. He would take care that they should be laid on the table, and in the meantime it would, perhaps, not be convenient that be should discuss the general subject.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that, although he was anxious to proceed with those Bills, there were others of greater importance on the Paper—the Irish Reform Bill for example—which stood before them on the Paper, and the Registration Bill, which stood next. If he found that the Committee on the Irish Reform Bill was concluded at such an hour as would leave the Registration Bill sufficient time to pass a second reading, he would proceed with the India Bills, but not otherwise.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : As I have seen the officers who have returned from Abyssinia, I will venture to answer the Question. Sir Robert Napier informed me, in a Despatch which has been laid on the Table of the House, that it was his intention to send an officer—Colonel Milward—with a Despatch containing details of the engagement which resulted in the capture of Magdala. On Saturday evening last Colonel Milward arrived, having been detained in consequence of the vessel in which he sailed getting aground. The Despatch gives full details of the action before Magdala; but the closing paragraph states that Sir Robert Napier proposed to send by the following mail a further Despatch, which would give the re-embarkation of the troops, and at the same time full particulars of the services of those whom he wished to recommend to notice. In a private letter tome Sir Robert Napier said he hoped to send this by Colonel Fraser. Very late on Saturday Colonel Fraser arrived, and left some letters at my house. The Despatch in question was not among those letters; but I have hopes that it may be among some other Papers that were sent to the Horse Guards.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that it would be impossible to say when the Return relating to Electric Telegraphs would be presented. Notwithstanding a second circular, the required information had not been received from the London, and North-Western, London and South-Western, Midland, Manchester Sheffield and Lincolnshire, Great Northern, Great Western, Caledonian, and other railway companies. It was evident that without particulars from these large railway companies the Return would be so incomplete as to be entirely useless. A similar Answer must be given to the second part of the hon. Member's Question. The delay in presenting the compiled annual Returns of the Railway Department was due to the failure of the companies to send in the particulars earlier. These particulars were compiled daily as they arrived at the Board of Trade; so that as soon as the last details were received the compiled Return was ready for presentation, allowing a few days for computing the totals. It was generally also in type at the same time ready for printing. Last year no less than five reminders were sent out before the whole of the Returns were made.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it is his intention to go on with those Bills that night?
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he thought that, in the absence of any Papers bearing on the question of the admission of Natives into the Civil Service, such an explanation ought to be given as the importance of the change deserved, particularly with reference to the extent to which it was to be carried.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he hoped the Bill would not be referred to a Select Committee.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it would be laid on the table very shortly.
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, he thought the last letter of the Duke of Buckingham to the colony, dated the present month, showed that the Government intended to consult the interests of Nova Scotia in the future.
 MR. BRIGHT : I shall make only one or two observations on the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies. His principal objection to my proposition was that the issue of the proposed Commission would, in point of fact, be a direct insult to the whole of the Canadian Dominion. My right hon. Friend the Member for Oxford (Mr. Card well) at the same time said that the Colonial Office, through its new Governor General, and that the Crown through him, would exercise certain influences as far as they might upon the Government at Ottawa for the purpose of adjusting the differences of Nova Scotia. It appears to me that if my proposition would be held to be an insult, the continual and repeated interferences of the Colonial Office, and of the Crown, through the Governor General, would be liable to the same description. Now, the difference between the Treasury Bench and the right hon. Member for Oxford and myself is this—that they do not regard the present state of things in Nova Scotia as at all as serious as I regard it. Of course, if the thing will blow over, and you can, through the Governor General coming into the harbour at Halifax, and seeing leading men there, rub away everything that is unpleasant, then my Motion is in no degree necessary; but I believe that the state of things is far more serious than either the Under Secretary for the Colonies or my right hon. Friend the Member for Oxford seems to suppose. My own impression is that the right hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary
 1695 1696
 MR. MAC EVOY  said, that as the Report of the Lords' Committee on the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill had been presented to the other House only to-day, he would not ask the House to go on with the second reading of this Bill at present if the Government promised him a day for it. Otherwise he should feel bound to divide the House. The hon. Member moved the second reading.
 MR. G. MORRIS  begged to second the Motion.
 MR. SCHREIBER , who had a Notice on the Paper that the Bill be read a second time that day three months, suggested that the better course would be for the Government to give a day for the discussion.
 MR. VANCE  said, he hoped the Government would not do such an injustice to other private Members as to give the hon. Member for Meath a day for the Bill.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he believed that the hon. Member for Meath had several times postponed the Motion for the second reading, in order that hon. Members might have an opportunity of perusing the Report of the Committee of the House of Lords before discussing the measure. He presumed that a Motion would be made for obtaining a communication of that Report to the House of Commons, and when it was in the hands of hon. Members the hon. Gentleman might find an opportunity for moving the second reading of his Bill. The Government had no object in preventing or delaying the
 1697
 THE O'DONOGHUE  recommended his hon. Friend the Member for Meath to divide the House,
 SIR JAMES M'KENNA  thought the Bill had been postponed so frequently that, a division should take place without any further delay. He did not see why the legislation of the House should be stopped in reference to the opinion of a Committee: of the House of Lords.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  protested, in the name of all the independent Members of every class and creed in Ireland, against the third reading of this Bill; but, as it was going to its last resting-place, he should not give the House the trouble of dividing upon it.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he would not follow the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford in his very discursive speech; but would ask the House to consider the position in which, at the present period of the Session, that question stood. The animus of the hon. Gentleman's proposition was disclosed at the commencement of his remarks, in which he said there was no necessity for legislation, and that the question might wait. Now, it was more than four years since the Royal Commissioners presented their Report to Her Majesty. That Report was in the hands of Members of Parliament before Easter, 1864; a measure was introduced on the subject in 1865; the question was referred to a Select Committee of the House of Lords; the Bill that was then framed came down to the House of Commons too late in the Session to be passed; again, in 1866 and 1867, Bills were introduced; and now the existing Government had brought in a measure sanctioned by their predecessors, and on which a Select Committee of that House had bestowed much valuable time and the greatest pains in order to render it as perfect as possible. The hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford was himself a very active Member of that Select Committee, before which he had an opportunity of urging all the arguments which he had just addressed to the House. The speech which the hon. Gentleman had made that day ought to have been delivered in 1865, 1866, 1867, and 1868 against the second reading of the Bill. The line, Gentleman wanted to refer the measure back to the Committee that they might provide for the cases of Eton and Winchester Colleges; but by the interpretation clause of the Bill the word "school" included, in the cases of Eton and Winchester, the Colleges at those places. If the hon. Gentleman had Amendments to propose, let him propose them in Committee of the Whole House. But what was the hon. Gentleman's object? Why, that those bodies might come before the Committee and be heard by counsel after the 16th of June. If that were done, the Bill was not likely to pass this Session. He believed it was the opinion of the House that legislation on that subject was now required, and he hoped the dilatory plea of the hon. Gentleman would not be listened to. The schools were anxious for the completion of that legislation, and the action of Eton and Winchester themselves, as Well as of the others, would be para-
 1638
 MR. NEWDEGATE , as one of the trustees for Rugby, did not see why Harrow and Rugby should be summarily dealt with, while Eton and Winchester should have legislation in regard to them virtually postponed, or, at all events, be legislated for on a different footing. Harrow and Rugby bad one peculiarity—namely, that their governing bodies consisted of laymen of the Church of England; but he did not see why, on that account, they should be treated, as was proposed by the Bill, in a more summary manner than institutions whose governing bodies were clerical. There was no pretence for saying that the governing body of Rugby bad thwarted the success and prosperity of the School, for their only difficulty was to find accommodation for the number of pupils who were anxious to enter. He attributed the success of the School in great part to the Head master, but the governing body had not impeded—on the contrary, he trusted they had aided—the efforts of the Head master. The Bill proposed that before the 1st of January, 1869, the governing bodies of Rugby and Harrow should be compelled, in Japanese fashion, to effect their own extinction. In Japan, as the House was aware, executions were conducted in this way. The culprit was expected to acknowledge the justice of his sentence, and then to rip up his own belly while the executioner stood by to cut off his head. That was exactly the treatment to which the governing bodies of Rugby and Harrow would be subject by that Bill. He was far from saying that those bodies might not be improved; but he wanted to know the mischief they had done, or the neglect of which they had been guilty. That anomaly appeared to have been introduced by the Select Committee, and not to have been contained in the original Bill, and he had placed on the Paper an Amendment providing that before the governing body of Harrow or Rugby should be compelled to immolate themselves or undergo execution by Special Commission, they should at least have eighteen months to consider what they ought to propose. That, he thought, was only reasonable, as the last six months of the present year would be a period of crisis arising out of the General Election, which would be very
 1639
 MR. GOSCHEN  remarked, that the hon. Gentleman who spoke last was perfectly
 1640
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that in the Select Committee the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) brought forward an excellent clause, carrying out the principle of religious toleration. It was a species of "Conscience Clause;" but it was rejected by a strict party vote. He trusted that the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets would propose the clause
 1641
 MR. POWELL  said, that though the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets did not succeed in earning what had been called a "Conscience Clause," he did induce the Select Committee to introduce another clause enabling the governing bodies to give facilities for the education of boys whose parents or guardians wished to withdraw them from the religious instruction given in the school.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he should support the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate), to refer the Bill back again to the Select Committee; for, though the Bill was much improved in details, its main defects remained much as they were before. It seemed a measure designed to carry out the most pernicious principle of selecting a few schools in order to apply to them very large endowments; not because they were necessary for the education of those who resorted to the schools, but merely because they tended to keep up the expensive character of the schools, and to maintain a kind of fashionable system of education for the fashionable classes. The discussion got up in the other House last night showed that the crude ideas of 300 years ago were not applicable to the exigencies of the present time. It was proposed to consecrate to this scheme of education endowments amounting to £70,000 a year, and with the addition of the value of the annual rental of property rent free worth £80,000 a year. The prospective increase in the value of the property might be estimated as likely to raise the amount of the endowments to £100,000 a year. With these great endowments they were now going to do for the education of the poor and the great body of the people of the country absolutely nothing. One might have hoped that the House of Commons would have conducted itself as individuals did at the near approach of dissolution, and would have abandoned evil ways. He thought that it would be much better to give up such a Bill as the present, and to leave the reform of these schools, together with other reforms, to the new Parliament. There was nothing to distinguish the schools comprised in the Bill from many schools left out of it, such as Uppingham and Tunbridge Schools, except that the latter were not so fashionable as Rugby, Harrow, and Eton Schools, and the idea was to apply these great endowments for the be-
 1642
 MR. LOWE  said, he could not remember whether this Bill had ever been discussed in the House before. If it had been it had left very little impression on anybody's mind, for he had asked the question of several who seemed to be in the same condition as himself regarding it. He only regretted it had not been discussed, for he thought they might be better employed in settling principles than arranging details. It seemed to him that the Bill proceeded on a false analogy and was founded on an unsound principle. The analogy was that of the governing bodies in the Universities and Colleges of Oxford and Cambridge. This unhappy analogy was applied to public schools. But the same public body which existed in the one case did not exist in the other. The body was to be created for the schools. What, then, were they going to do? They were going to create a governing body for those schools that never existed before. They were going to intrust to this now and untried body the powers of a constituent assembly—to make a new governing body; and so jealous were they of them as to their powers that they were to be extinguished at the end of this year. They made them on purpose to destroy them; they lighted the candle for the purpose of snuffing it out. They gave them certain functions to be performed, but under the Commission which had power to undo them. Would it not be better if this was to be done to give it to the Commission at once? It seemed to him there never was a Bill framed on so strange a basis as this. The analogy of the Universities and Colleges, it was found, did not apply; so successive Committees had cut it down to the shape in which they now
 1643 1644 secundum subjectam naturam,
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe), seemed to have forgotten that this subject had been made matter of consideration by a Royal Commission some years ago, which sat for two years or more, and very fully considered the whole of these questions—among others, the relation in which the Head master should stand to the school; and if the right hon. Gentleman would take the trouble to examine the Report of the Commission he would see ample reason
 1645 1646
 MR. W. E. FORSTER , though agreeing with much that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) and the right hon. Gentleman beside him (Mr. Lowe), still thought that the House ought to go into Committee on the Bill. At present the education of a boy cost a large sum. He did not exaggerate when he said that a father who sent his boy to one of those public schools without getting any assistance from an endowment, and afterwards sent him to a University, could not do so for less than £2,000. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets had said that there was no sufficient reason why those seven schools, or the nine schools that were originally contemplated, should be made the subjects of a special Act of Parliament. But they must take facts as they found them; and he supposed the reason why they were called upon to legislate specially with regard to those schools was because there had been a Report on their condition which showed a state of things that required alteration, notwithstanding the opinion of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford that no reform was needed. It was true that if the House was prepared to deal with the general subject of endowments, as he hoped would be done in the new Parliament, there was not any reason upon the merits of the question for excluding the schools with which the Bill proposed to deal. Nevertheless, as the question with
 1647 1648
 MR. ACLAND  said, he could not go the length of speaking of endowments as useless, though it was perfectly true that some of our best public schools did not depend on them. Harrow, for all practical purposes, was an unendowed school, though Eton had very large endowments. But what he wished to know was whether they had power in Committee to provide that the best use should be made of the endowments of Eton and Winchester; for the hon. and learned Member for Oxford seemed to think that in Committee their hands would be tied with respect to the revenues of those schools.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Acland) had put a very important question, and the whole discussion which had arisen upon the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Neate) really turned upon the answer to be given to that question. Having consulted legal authorities, he believed that the Bill as now drawn gave the fullest powers to the governing bodies of the schools and Colleges, whether old or new, in conjunction with the Commissioners, or to the Commissioners alone, of so arranging the funds and property of the schools and Colleges that they might be turned to the best possible use. Such was his belief, and otherwise there would, he admitted, be great force in the argument of his hon. Friend. If the terms of the Bill left any doubt on this head, it might be remedied in Committee, and he hoped that on this understanding the House would proceed to consider the clauses.
 MR. KINNAIRD  remarked that the governing body of Eton were very anxious that the Bill should pass, and that it would be very injurious to these bodies to subject them to any further delay.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  contended that the parents of the boys should have some voice in the management of those institutions, and that their supervision would be more effective than that of any Commissioners. He feared that the old and new governing bodies and the Commissioners would come into conflict, and he doubted whether the Bill would operate beneficially on Eton, where reforms were already being introduced by the Provost and Head master.
 MR. MARSH  agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Lowe) and the hon. and
 1649
 MR. NEATE  said, that in consideration of the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) that the Bill would be dealt with as he described, he should not press his Motion.
 MR. ACLAND  objected to the Bill being entitled the Public Schools Act 1868, on the ground that other schools not included within its operations were equally entitled to the appellation of public schools. He moved that the clause be postponed for the purpose of an arrangement being made to get some other expression to indicate the title of the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could see no reason for postponing the clause, since any alteration which the hon. Gentleman might offer could be now considered. The title of the Bill, however, did not imply that these were the only public schools; it simply indicated what public schools were dealt with in 1868.
 MR. ACLAND  said, Hint gentlemen connected with other public schools objected to the assumption that those affected by this Bill were the only public institutions of that character. The title might be altered to the "Colleges and Schools Act, 1868."
 MR. ACLAND  then moved that the word "public" be omitted.
 MR. LOWE  objected to the use of the word "existing."
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the object of the word was to maintain the distinction between the old and new governing bodies, which ran all through the Bill. For the purposes of this Act, the existing governing bodies of Eton and Winchester were not the governing bodies which existed now.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he understood that the Fellows of Eton College had very little to do with the school, except to usurp to themselves the greater portion of the endowments. He thought that the Head master rather than the Provost should be the head of the governing body.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, at Eton the governing body was the Provost and Fellows, but they were not the governing body of the School. The person who had the real governing authority was the Provost, who, no doubt, acted in conjunction with the Head master. It was in the Provost that the property of the College was vested.
 MR. NEATE  said, he had an Amendment to the latter part of the clause, which went to the whole principle of the Bill. In order to ensure that full power should be given to deal with the revenues of the Colleges, he proposed to insert the words—
 "Including in the case of Eton College the Provost and Fellows, and in the case of Winchester College the Warden and Fellows."
 MR. WALPOLE  said, there was no doubt that the Bill as it stood dealt with the revenues of the Colleges of Eton and Winchester. It might be proper to add these words to a later clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as this clause raised the question how far the Bill should extend, it was the proper time to ask why two of the schools included in the Royal Commission were omitted from this Bill—
 1651
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he had an Amendment to move prior to the Amend-
 1652
 MR. LOWE  said, he had an Amendment on the Paper which should have preceded the Amendments of both the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) and the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther). The question he wished to raise was whether those governing bodies should be created at all, seeing that the sole duty which they would have to discharge would be to appoint other governing bodies; for they would be intrusted with no legislative functions, and would only have, if created, an existence altogether of six months and a fortnight. Believing that it would be ridiculous to create such bodies merely to do a thing for which they had no peculiar aptitude and some inaptitude, he should move to leave out the words
 1653
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he hoped that he would not be prevented by the right hon. Gentleman's Motion from putting his Amendment.
 MR. LOWE  said, the effect of what he proposed to do would be to carry the hon. Member's Amendment.
 MR. GOLDNEY  objected to the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), on the ground that it struck at the root of the Bill, which he thought it was not desirable should be shelved altogether.
 MR. NEATE  said, he was of opinion that there was no real necessity for the proposed change, and that it would only be paying a compliment, to which they were entitled, to those so-called governing bodies to give them the right of making suggestions as to those by whom they should be succeeded.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the right hon. Member for Calne proposed to improve on that Japanese system to which he had alluded in the early part of the day, and to become at once a Nero. He, for one, objected to have the governing bodies disposed of in so summary a manner.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the hon. Member was under a misapprehension in supposing that the tendency of his Amendment would be to withdraw all control over the Head master. All that he proposed to strike out was the proposition to give to the existing governing bodies the only function the Bill assigned to them—that of appointing their successors.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the new governing bodies would have important functions to discharge, some relating to education and others to revenues and emoluments; and as the existing governing bodies were trustees, it became a question how far it was right to take out of their hands the nomination of the new governing bodies.
 MR. ACLAND  thought that, as a matter of common sense, full power should be given to the Commission to act in the matter.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  denied that the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) would strike at the root
 1654
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, he thought the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne would practically destroy the Bill. It would be better to accept the Bill as they found it.
 MR. WALPOLE  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) not to press his Amendment. He thought in all reforms they should attend to this rule, to go as far as they could in perfect harmony with those to whom they had to look for carrying their reforms into effect. He would therefore consult the existing governors of schools as to who should be the proper governing body. Why should they not pay them the compliment of allowing them to consider the matter?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would prefer the present system to that which would result from the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  rose to move to insert in line 5, after the word "Fellows," the word "Head master," with the view of giving him a  locus standi Dissent. locus standi
 MR. LIDDELL  thought it was only common justice to point out that the Provost and Fellows of his own School, against whom some harsh expressions had been used by an hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Stuart Mill), had by their choice of the
 1655
 MR. J. STUART MILL  hoped the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill would take into serious consideration the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere). The object which they all had in view was to improve the schools. The Provost and Head master had the most to do in the management of the schools, and as the good government of those institutions was what should be steadily aimed at, that object could not be better promoted than by including the Provost and Head master in the governing body.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  remarked that the discussion was turning upon the composition of the governing body. The Amendment of the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) would be worthy of the consideration of the Special Commission; but it would be extremely difficult to deal with it at present. It was obvious that the relations of the Head master with the governing body would be materially altered by placing him upon it, and he was inclined to doubt whether his power of doing his proper work would be thereby increased. He hoped the Committee would adopt the proposal of the Select Committee, and allow existing governing bodies, of which the Head master had never been a member, to prepare a scheme of future government and submit it to the Commissioners.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, the Fellows were acquainted with the working of the School, As to the merits of that School, a gentleman who had recently taken high honours at Cambridge informed him yesterday that he attributed his success to his progress at Eton, where he had acquired the best education that could be found in the country.
 MR. FAWCETT  thought the Head master was one of the most appropriate names that could be placed upon the list of the governing body, and that the most advantageous results would follow such an appointment.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the question before the House was simply, whether between August and the 1st of January the Head master should be associated with the Fellows and Provost in making sugges-
 1656
 MR. ACLAND  advised the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) to withdraw the Amendment, and rely on the Commissioners giving an opportunity to the Head master of expressing his opinion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that having regard to the tone of the discussion which had taken place, he should withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. MARSH  remarked that in his own time the boys had nothing to do with the Chapter, but with the Dean alone, who used to ask them to dinner.
 MR. HURST  pointed out that the pecuniary interests of the Dean and Chapter were hostile to the school, since every farthing spent on it came out of their revenues.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had no objection to include the Dean of Christchurch, Oxford, and the Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, in the governing body of Westminster School, provided the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther) would consent to retain the Dean and Chapter in the governing body.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  accepted this suggestion, and the Amendment thus modified was  agreed to.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, his hon. and learned Friend a little while ago professed his inability to find who the governing body of the Mercers' Company were, yet he now proposed to put them in the Bill. He was so anxious not to impede the progress of the Bill that he would not detain the Committee by defending the Mercers' Company, and would only remind them that the circumstances of St. Paul's School were
 1657
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, that a petition had been presented to the House by the Mercers' Company, in which they stated that at that moment an information was pending in Equity as to whether they had a right to claim the surplus revenues of the School. It was clear that while the matter was thus  sub judice
 MR. WALPOLE : This clause is an important one. It was with reference to it that the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) made his remarks at the commencement of the debate. Wishing to have time for consideration with regard to it, I now move, Sir, that you report Progress. We propose to proceed with this Bill at a Morning Sitting on this day week.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : I believe we can fix it for this day week; but, formally, we may now fix it for Thursday.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, about a month ago—on the 15th of May last—I presented a petition to the House from the representatives of the colony of Nova Scotia, and I now rise for the purpose of calling attention to that petition, and to statements made in it, and of proposing what appears to me to be a judicious course in regard to it. The Resolution which I have given Notice of consists of two parts—first, the statement of a fact which is easily proved; and, secondly, a statement of the mode in which the Government would do wisely to meet the difficult questions which have arisen. I am sorry to see that the right hon. Gentleman who has charge in this House of colonial affairs is not here; but in the course of my argument he may come upon that Bench. The petition which I presented to the House makes what to all Englishmen must or ought to be considered a very serious complaint. It complains that the Parliament of this country, by an Act passed in the last Session, overthrew the constitution of the colony of Nova Scotia, and destroyed a description—nay, in fact, a reality—of independence which had existed in that colony for nearly 100 years; that it handed over the Government and the destiny of the colony mainly to another colony—namely, that of Canada; and, taking from the people of Nova Scotia the management of their own affairs, the appointment of their own officials, the collection and expenditure of their own revenues, transferred the whole of these to a Parliament created by the Bill, which was to sit at Ottawa, distant not less than 800 miles from Nova Scotia. Now the petition declares—and I think it is capable of proof—that the House of Commons and the Parliament of the United Kingdom did all they could, not only without the consent of the colonists of Nova Scotia, but directly in the face of their pronounced disapproval; and I think it would be easy to show that what has been done was in reality done as a great surprise to the people of Nova Scotia, and that it was in some degree—though I am afraid to use a word that may seem harsh—a fraud upon the Imperial Parliament. At least, if it were not a fraud—and perhaps I had better withdraw that word—tho Act was passed upon representations which were
 1659 1660 1661 "The plea for delay is in reality a plea for indefinite postponement, and to this I do not believe that Parliament will lend its ear. This measure has been purchased at the cost of great personal and local interests, and if we now remit it—I care not on what pretence—to the further consideration of the Province, we deliberately invite opposition, and we may be sure that many years will pass over before another such proposal for Confederation is submitted to Parliament"—[3  Hansard 1662 1663 1664 1665 1666 "If, at a time like this, when you are proposing a union which we all hope is to last for ever, you create a little sore it will in all probability become a great sore in a short time, and it may be that the intentions of Parliament will be almost entirely frustrated by the haste with which this measure is being pushed forward."—[3  Hansard 1667 1668 1669 1670 1671 1672 1673 1674 1675 1676
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) could not be regarded as raising in any way a party question, because both sides of the House were equally interested in this great Confederation of the North American Provinces obtaining a successful start, and were equally interested in the
 1678 1679 1680 ipsissima verba 1681 1682 Halifax Morning Chronicle 1683 Halifax Morning Chronicle 1684 1685 1686 1687 "'Twas distance lent enchantment to the view"
 MR. CARDWELL : I have had so much to do with the Confederation of the North American Provinces that I am sure the House will indulge me with the opportunity of making a few remarks upon this question. My hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) has drawn a picture, which I hope is overcharged, of the discontent and dissatisfaction which prevail in Nova Scotia on this subject. He has spoken of the colonists in terms which their well-proved loyalty to this country merit at our hands. I am
 1689 1690 1691 "We have learnt with deep satisfaction that the efforts to effect a satisfactory union of the British North American colonies have been so successful, and we entertain no doubt that the best interests of all these Provinces will he greatly enhanced, and their connection with the Crown and the parent State permanently secured thereby." 1692
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Boundary Bill or the Telegraphs Bill will take precedence in the Orders of the Day for Thursday?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the Electric Telegraphs Bill would be taken as the second Order of the Day on Thursday.
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE , having presented on a former occasion a petition from 31,000 inhabitants of Nova Scotia, wished to say, he believed their disinclination for Confederation was founded, not upon any apprehension of increased burdens or damage to material interests; but rather on a fear lest their connection with this country should he imperilled, for they were distinguished by a rational loyalty based upon identity of feeling and sympathy with ourselves. After the conflicting statements that had been made, it would be unreasonable to refuse the request for inquiry.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) would divide the House on his very moderate proposal. He believed the subject to be one of the greatest importance. The union of Nova Scotia with Canada had occasioned very widespread dissatisfaction; and he believed there were good grounds for this discontent. The evil consequences that had arisen were certainly greater than any prospective good that could be anticipated from it. The duties on the commerce of Nova Scotia had been increased and the control over their own revenue had been taken from them. These evils might be counterbalanced by some prospect of future good; but what could Nova Scotia expect from its union with Canada? All it could hope to derive was an increase of security from aggression on the land side.
 1688
 MR. BAXTER , in seconding the Motion, expressed a hope that it would be acceded to by the Government. He believed that if a petition so influentially signed and so effectually worded as that presented by his hon. Friend were entirely disregarded by the Imperial Parliament, consequences must ensue most humiliating and disastrous to this great Empire. If his hon. Friend had proposed that the House should adopt any Resolution or affirm any measure to carry out the views of the delegates of Nova Scotia, then he could understand why the House and Her Majesty's Government should feel great hesitation in doing anything of the sort. He believed that any Gentleman who had carefully looked at the Papers that had been circulated with regard to this question must admit that the delegates from Nova Scotia bad made out a very strong case. But his hon. Friend did not ask the House to repeal the Union Act nor to pronounce any opinion on any branch of the subject; all that he asked for was, that having regard to the universal dissatisfaction which prevailed in Nova Scotia, there should be an inquiry into the cause of that dissatisfaction, with a view to its removal. He could scarcely conceive that this House would refuse so reasonable a request, whatever view they might take of the Confederation of Canada. His hon. Friend had, perhaps, seen the delegates from Nova Scotia; but he (Mr. Baxter) stood in a totally different position. He had not had any communication with those delegates, either direct or indirect. But he had taken the trouble of making inquiry into this matter. He received the other day from a friend long resident in the colony, a gentleman in business at Halifax, and
 1677
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he would beg to ask the Lord Advocate, When the Return of Poor Rate (Scotland), for which an Address was moved on the 9th day of March, may be expected to be laid upon the Table of the House?
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he did not rise for the purpose of offering further opposition to the Bill, but wished to clear himself from a statement which he was reported to have made upon the Motion with regard to a Royal residence, by the hon. Baronet the Member for Clare. ["Order, order!"]
 MR. GORST , in rising to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham, said, that there could be no doubt
 1693 1694
 LORD HENLEY  said, that although he did not agree with some parts of the Bill, he would vote for the second reading, because he thought it of great importance that the abolition of turnpikes should be affirmed by the House. The difficulty in dealing with the subject, and which was experienced both in the Committee of last year and in that of 1864, was, however, greatly aggravated by the unfortunately permissive character of the Highway Act. Nothing had done so much harm; and it had given him a strong opinion, not only in regard to the Highway Act itself, but against all permissive legislation. It was necessary to throw the expense of the repair of the roads upon a somewhat larger area that the parish. There was a small parish near Northampton through which several miles of turnpike road ran; and to throw the whole of the expense of keeping up that road upon the parish would be ruinous. At the same time, his hon. Friend the Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) had deserved the thanks of the House for the trouble he had taken in attempting to settle the question by legislation.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that if turnpikes were abolished and the expense of maintaining the roads were thrown on the ratepayers, it was necessary that the persons who were to be called on to pay should know beforehand what the burden would be. If, after the ratepayers had been made aware of the rates they would likely be culled upon, to pay, they pronounced in favour of the abolition of turnpikes, there would be no cause of complaint hereafter. He thought that the bondholders had been great benefactors to the country, as being the means of effecting improvements in the turnpike roads; but now that that benefit had been secured people were about to forget the sacrifices made by those who furnished the necessary money. If the tolls were done away with, and the expense thrown on the parishes, the burden in many instances would be intolerable.
 MR. C. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he thought that great injustice would be done to the inhabitants of parishes if the area of taxation were not extended considerably beyond the limits of the present highway districts. It was only necessary to instance the cases of parishes situated immediately without the limits of large trading and manufacturing towns in order to establish this. He considered that the county Boards ought to have power vested in them to issue traffic licences, which should be compulsory on the owners of
 1725
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped that a division would not be taken on the second reading of the Bill, because it raised questions on which it would not be expedient at present to pronounce an opinion, either negatively or affirmatively. This measure deals with various matters; in the first place the abolition of tolls, and then the debts of the trusts. They were told that it was proposed to deal with the debt "somehow;" it would be very satisfactory to creditors for several millions that their debt was to be treated somehow. He had the greatest, respect for Secretaries of State, past, present, and to come; but this was not a question which ought to be left to any Secretary of State, be he man or angel. This debt "had been created by sanction of Parliament, and should only be dealt with by Parliament. He did not agree that the debts were decidedly local; and certainly in his own county many roads in the coaching days had been made for Imperial and not for county purposes—for cutting down hills and filling up valleys to enable stagecoaches to travel nine or ten miles an hour with safety—and debt had been incurred in the course of the work. Even at the present day there was a great deal of
 1727
 COLONEL HOGG  said, this bill was founded on an entirely false basis, and was altogether a very crude measure, and would be utterly unworkable. Instead of tending to produce economy, it would, he thought have an opposite effect. He had been present at an immense meeting in St. James's Hall, called together by the friends of the measure, and only four hands were held up in favour of the Bill. Great stress was laid upon the number of petitions presented in favour of the Bill, but, after all, he found that the number of petitions was 259, and the number of signatures 241. The fact was that a public meeting of ratepayers having declared against the Bill, the only resource the supporters of the measure had was to send round petitions to be signed by single individuals, who forwarded them to the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), who, of course, was delighted to present them. The parish of St. James's, with a population of 35,000, was the only
 1739
 MR. AYRTON  suggested the withdrawal of the Bill. From the complicated character of the subject it was one which could only be efficiently dealt with by the Government. The measure before them only touched a fragment of the question, which should be dealt with as a whole. He would suggest that the Amendment should not be pressed, and that in it a Resolution should be substituted, declaring that it is the opinion of the House that the Government should introduce a Bill providing for the better government of the metropolis.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that since he had seen the question, on the Notice Paper, upon which it had appeared that day for the first time, he had caused all the American Papers in the Colonial Office to be searched, and the only allusion to anything approaching the report referred to by the hon. Member was in the  Toronto Weekly Leader, Irish American, 1699
 MR. READ  said, he had fears as to how turnpike roads would be maintained if the burden of keeping them up was east upon parishes. He objected to the increase of rates while so large a portion of the property of the country escaped being rated; but he agreed that at present the matter was in a very unsatisfactory state. He hoped that before the 200 trusts, which had been referred to should cease, some general measure embracing all the roads of the country would be adopted.
 MR. REARDEN  said, that his only object in putting the question was to obtain a contradiction, because such a report if uncontradicted would have a moat pernicious effect. He was very glad, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman had so emphatically denied the truth of the Report.
 MR. REARDEN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it be true, as reported in some American and English Papers that the Rev. Mr. M'Mahon. now confined in a Canadian Prison, has been flogged for the offence of receiving a few copies of a news-paper that had been forwarded to him?
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the Under Secretary for the Home Department (Sir James Fergusson) had adverted to the Report of the Royal Commission of 1860, which recommended the abolition of tolls in Scotland, and of which he (Mr. M'Laren) had had the honour of being a Member. That
 1726
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN : As I am anxious to save the time of the
 1729
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said:  * 1700 "That the Secretary of State should direct the amount of such debt to be defrayed out of the county rate of the county within which such turnpike road is situate." "That boroughs and places under a local Act which do not now contribute to the county rate, but through which turnpike roads pass, should be made to contribute to this debt by Order of the Secretary of State." "That in any future legislation on the subject of Turnpike Trusts it will be expedient to alter and amend the Highway Act, so as to provide an uniform system of road management throughout the country, and that the maintenance of all roads should be provided for by a rate levied on districts, and not as at present on parishes separately." 1701 1702 Will. 1703 "My only excuse for intruding upon you is that I am a clergyman who find myself unexpectedly taxed to the amount of near £60 a year, for the
 1704 "I cannot give this for the same period without considerable labour and search; but during the years 1860–67 inclusive—eight years—the number is 280." 1705 d. "There are, however, many trusts whose condition is very unsatisfactory, and to remedy which the powers vested in the Secretary of State appear to be inadequate. Thus, in the accounts for 1865, it may be observed that on 445 trusts no portion of the mortgage debt was paid off; but an examination of past years shows that on 291 trusts no debt has been paid for three years; on 225 trusts none has been paid for six years; on 191 trusts none has been paid for ten years; and on 141 trusts none has been paid for fifteen years." 1706 "The amount of parish aid received in 1865 was £31,728; but this does not represent all the aid that is obtained from the parishes, many turnpike roads being repaired by the parishes in lieu of contributing funds out of the highway rates under the 4 & 5  Vict. 1707 "That all parties knew that the loan was in the nature of a speculation, and that it was just possible they might never get repaid, and that the security on which the money had been advanced, was the tolls to be collected for a certain and specified term of years and no longer is clear and obvious from the fact that when, in the year 1755, the Legislature passed a Statute reducing the tolls to be taken under the local Turnpike Acts for carriages having wheels of a certain description, it made a compensation to deed-poll holders who had lent their money on the faith of the tolls granted by such local Turnpike Acts in these remarkable words, 'And to avoid the least suspicion that lessening the tolls and duties as aforesaid may be in any way prejudicial to creditors who have lent, or shall lend, their money upon the security of the tolls, be it enacted that all and every Act or Acts of Parliament made in this Session of Parliament, or heretofore made for repairing or amending turnpike roads shall be continued and be in full force for five years, to be computed from the several ends and expirations of all and every such Act and Acts respectively.' What proof can be desired more clear and conclusive than this, that the creditors who advanced their money for making or repairing the roads had done so on the credit alone of the tolls to be received during the term of years granted by the Act creating the trust, whether twenty-one or thirty-one years? If that be so, what right or equity can the creditors have a century afterwards to allege that they have a permanent claim on the tolls? What pretence have they for doing so? Clearly none—they lent their money on a contract, and by the terms of that contract they must stand or fall." 1708 "Upon winding up the trusts a most disgraceful scramble ensued. The Borough Commissioners outvoted the County Members of the Board, who ceased to attend, and gratuities were voted to the clerk, a member of the largest professional firm in Bristol; to his under clerks, the surveyor and his son, who bad not been long in the employ of the Commissioners, and who both got similar appointments before the trusts were wound up; the toll collectors, and even to the labourers who had been employed on the roads at weekly wages. The consequence was there were no funds in hand for some of the trusts, and the Highway Board had to pay, for the materials placed on the road in readiness for the coming winter." 1709 1710 1711 1712 The Times "Having the blue books before me, with your permission, I will show the effect Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen's Bill will have in Gloucestershire if it passes. There was expended in 1865 upon all the roads in the county (exclusive of debt and interest) the sum of £69,518; this was raised, £35,274 by tolls, and £34,244 by rates; it, therefore, follows that if tolls be abolished the highway rates must be increased nearly 100 per cent, after allowing for those expenses which are peculiar to the toll system; and even that will not make provision for the mortgage debt of £170,000, the commuted value of which (at best a heavy burden) will have to be apportioned among the several parishes, and liquidated by further rates; or the Secretary of State may continue the tolls for ten years for that purpose—in either case a pleasant prospect for the ratepayers." 1713 1714 1715 1716 s. s. d. 1717
 MR. CORRANCE , in seconding the Amendment, said, that the arguments used in support of this Bill appeared to him to be shallow and insufficient. He admitted that the payment of the turnpike debt should be local. The main objection
 1719 s. d. 1720
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that having been a Member of the Committee to which the measure had been referred, he had found that the great majority of its members were known to be what was termed "Turn- pike Reformers," and that they had gone on the Committee with the knowledge that they were to be asked to agree to a proposal for the abolition of turnipkes. The moment, however, the question arose as to; who were the persons who should in that event find the necessary money, they were completely at variance. When the hon. Gentleman's Bill was brought under the consideration of the Select Committee it contained two great proposals. The one I was that the Secretary of State should; allocate the amount of the debts to each of the parishes within the particular districts, and the other was that the roads should be; maintained as public highway. The first proposal was rejected by the Committee, who determined that the debt should be thrown on the counties, and ultimately it was carried by a majority of 10 to 2 that the boroughs should be included, and the hon., Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) consequently found that the, first part of his Bill was set aside or destroyed. He (Mr. Knight) did not think, therefore, that the hon. Member could refer to that Committee as concurring in
 1718 s. d. s.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  did not wish it to be supposed that he assented to the principle of the total abolition of tolls.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was glad that it was not the intention of the hon. Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) to divide the House on this occasion on the Bill, and he would recommend the hon. Member behind him to withdraw his Amendment also. The discussion showed that no two Members could agree upon the vote which they would give upon the Bill, except so far as this, that they desired to abolish the present system of the management of turnpike roads. They were agreed upon nothing else, and there would be no use in their passing what would in effect be an abstract Resolution upon the question, by which no one would be bound. It would no doubt be to the general interest of the country that the existing bad and expensive system should
 1728 vice versâ
 MR. BENTINCK , in rising to move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months, said, that he did not wish it to be said that the Bill had been dropped solely in consequence of the lateness of the Session; and he therefore desired to obtain the opinion of the House on the Bill. He confessed his surprise that the hon. Member should attempt to proceed with it after his other Bill had been prevented from being discussed. Having been a Member of the Committee on Metropolitan Local Government which sat last Session, he would remind the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) that in the opinion of the Committee the mainspring; of reform in the municipal
 1736 "It is desirable that Her Majesty's Government should ascertain in what manner the metropolis can be best divided into districts and wards, in accordance with these Resolutions." 1737
 MR. CLIVE  said, he hoped the House would read the Bill a second time. The present system was the most expensive, cumbrous, and least effective possible. In his opinion the only way in which the matter could by satisfactorily settled was by making the Highway Act compulsory, and he hoped a measure would be introduced for that purpose.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, that while rendering full credit to the able and temperate manner in which the Bill had been introduced, he thought it was impos-
 1738
 MR. LOCKE  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department would accede to the proposal of
 1740
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  said, he entirely concurred in the sentiments expressed by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley). In the Isle of Wight they continued to be under the Act 53  Geo.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : The House is aware that this Bill is only one of two which have some claim to be considered as one, inasmuch as they are parts of a combined plan for the local government of the metropolis. The most important of them, as the House is also aware, I have been unexpectedly prevented from proceeding with. It has been decided to be a violation of the Standing Orders. It appears to me a subject well worthy the consideration of the House under what circumstances this difficulty has arisen, and that I should have been unable to propose to the House apian for the general municipal government of the metropolis because due notice has not been given to the Corporation of the City of London. The Bill is not of private, but of public interest; the Corporation is solely interested in it by reason of the property it holds for public purposes; the City of London is perfectly aware of all that is proposed, and has made no complaint of not having received notice. The promoters of the measure do not expect to make money by it, but may have a great deal to spend in carrying out its objects; and it appears to me worthy of consideration whether the forms required by the Standing Orders were ever intended for such a case as this, and whether the promoters of the Bill ought to be required to spend several hundreds of pounds out of their own pockets to give formal notice to the Corporation. Since the House did me the honour of permitting me to introduce the former measure, a great change has taken place in the situation of this country as respects its institutions. The great measure of last Session has been passed, and our Constitution has been materially altered in a democratic direction. This new state of things imposes new duties; it requires the House, on the one hand, to do more than it was previously obliged to do; and, on the other, to consider the inconveniences, whether great or small, that may be created by the new direction in which we are proceeding, and to guard against them as far as possible. It is well understood what is the special danger of democratic institutions: it is the absence
 1731 1732 pro con; 1733 1734 1735
 MR. PAGET  said, he would gladly vote for the second reading, believing that the measure would supply them with the basis for future legislation in regard to turnpike roads. He trusted that those roads would eventually be amalgamated and placed under one system of local taxation and local control.
 MR. BEACH  said, he fully agreed that the House was much indebted to his hon. Friend (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) for the attention he had devoted to this subject, and he only regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not yet been able to lay before the House a measure that was satisfactory to the country. The difficulty in the way of legislation was, in fact, so great that it was hardly possible to introduce a measure that did not inflict hardship on some portion of the community. One element of difficulty was the difference in the circumstances and situation of the turnpike trusts. In some cases they were
 1721 1722
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, it could not be, fairly objected to the working of the Highway Acts that the expenses wore large, as the present roads were the result of management that had continued during three or four generations. He thought, that the House would agree that any tax which cost 30 per cent in collection was a vicious tax; and that was the state of things with reference to tolls In 1866 £1,250,000 was collected, and yet only £500,000 went in the repair of the roads; £250,000 was absorbed by the debt; and the remaining £500,000 went in management expenses of one sort and another In addition, there was £1,500,000 for highway rates, making with tolls £2,750,000; but in his opinion the whole of the work could be well done for £2,000,000. His opinion was that the abolition of the present system would impose no serious burden upon any one The repair of the roads ought to fall on property, and not on the occupiers, Taking the existing debt at £3,000,000, a sum of £100,000 a year levied on property would suffice to provide for its extinction, and that would not amount to n rate of more than a farthing in the pound annually. The increase in the rates would be nothing, and the estates which had roads passing through them, or even placed at a distance from large towns, would be immensely benefited.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that there was a general dissatisfaction with the management of the public highways, and a general desire for the establishment of some system by which the petty hardships which the present system inflicted upon the community might be mitigated and gradually got rid of; but, when so many local interests were concerned, and
 1723 1724 s.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he could not undertake at this time of day to discuss the philosophical principles laid down by the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), and as the hon. Member had said he should not press the Bill this Session he did not think it necessary to discuss it. He might remark that the Bill was opposed in its principle and details to the Report of the Select Committee which had inquired into the question. One of their recommendations was that the question should be dealt with by the Government; but he need hardly remind the House that circumstances had prevented the Government taking up the matter this Session. The principle of the measure, to divide the metropolis into new boroughs, was wholly at variance with the principle of the Municipal Corporations Act, which provided that new boroughs were to be created by the Crown, on petition by the inhabitants. He agreed with an hon. Gentleman who had spoken (Mr. Harvey Lewis) that a Bill of this kind should be introduced upon the responsibility of the the Government, and not on that of a private Member. At all events it was such a Bill as could not receive the support of the Government.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the proposal seemed to be that the Government should come forward to help the House out of a difficulty.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the Motion deserving of consideration by the House, as a question arose whether the rules at present in force were judicious, and ought to be maintained for the future. It was well known that many  bonâ fide bonâ fide 1752
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If he will state the name and profession of the gentleman who is responsible for the large excess over the Estimate given for the repairs of the Embassy at Constantinople; and, whether it is not true that no Officer of the Corps of Royal Engineers is responsible for the Estimate or the expenditure in question?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is true that the Government have announced their intention of withdrawing the small grant of five hundred pounds which has for some years been made to the Royal Academy of Music; and, whether the Government contemplates the creation of any institution for musical education, to be supported from the public funds?
 CAPTAIN PACK-BERESFORD  said, he I wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he is aware that the gentleman acting temporarily as Ranger of the Curragh has made a claim for £1 for each horse entered to run for the Queen's Plate at the Currogh in April last, mid also for £5 from the winner, as fees due to him; and, on what authority that gentleman makes such a claim?
 THE EARL or MAYO , in reply, said, he apprehended that all these arrangements would be altered by the Bill now before Parliament.
 MR. ADDBRLEY  said, in reply, that the Colonial Office had received a copy of the Treason Felony Act lately passed by the Legislature of New South Wales. It was chiefly copied from the Imperial Act; but it contained some provisions which appeared objectionable, and amendments had been recommended which would, he hoped, be adopted. It was inadvisable, therefore, at present to lay it on the table
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has had transmitted to him officially the Report of the Municipal Commissioners of Bombay for 1867; when the Statistics of India with Maps will be laid upon the Table; and, whether any arrangement has been made for the more rapid issue of the Sheets of India Atlas; and when the next sheets will be issued?
 MR. ADDBRLEY  said, in reply, that no information had been received by the Government of the failure of the crops in Ceylon, and of the dying of large numbers of the population. They had, however, heard of a great drought in the island; but it was not attended by the consequences suggested in the Question.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that the question of the law of pawnbroking in Ireland was one of considerable difficulty and intricacy, and he could not promise any legislation on the subject in the present Session, If any vacancy occurred in the offices of pawnbrokers' auctioneers care would be taken that the appointment was made subject to such conditions as Parliament might impose in any legislation on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI  said: I wish to take the earliest opportunity of expressing the opinion of the Government respecting the clauses of this measure which were postponed the other night. I quite agree with many Gentlemen who spoke the other evening on the subject, that it is by no means expedient to disturb the distribution of electoral power which exists unless there is a prospect of considerable advantage being obtained; and I also agree that the distribution of seats in Ireland could probably not be very much changed, and that no very great benefit in strengthening the representation could be secured thereby. But, at the same time, taking a general view of the electoral system, and having
 1763 1764
 THE EARL OF MAYO  suggested to the right hon. Member for Louth (Mr. C. Fortescue) who had a Notice on the Paper providing for the union of the Queen's University with the University of Dublin for the purpose of returning a Member to Parliament, that it would be more convenient that he should put his proposition in the shape of a substantive Motion. With that view he begged to move the omission in the clause of all the words after the word "only." If the right hon. Gentleman's Motion should not he carried, those words might be re-inserted on the Report.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  accordingly moved the omission of the words.
 MR. FAWCETT  contended that there was no reason why the right hon. Member for Louth should not proceed with the clause of which he had given notice—namely, that the Dublin University and the Queen's University in Ireland should return two Members to serve in Parliament.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he had no intention to withdraw his clause in reference to University repre-
 1765
 MR. J. GOLDSMID  entered his protest against the policy which was proposed, and wanted to know upon what principle the small boroughs of England had been sacrificed, while those of Ireland were not to be molested? In Ireland, too, the boroughs were much smaller than in England; and in the former country Kingstown was the only borough with more than 10,000 inhabitants which was not represented in Parliament. If these small boroughs in Ireland remained represented this would furnish a reason why the new Parliament should interfere with the Reform measures. The matter of Reform had been left much in the hands of the House, and he hoped that the House would take upon itself to disfranchise the small boroughs in Ireland. He should oppose the omission of the clause.
 MR. PIM  said, he was well pleased that the Government scheme of redistribution was given up, as he considered it a very bad one. He particularly objected to the transfer of representation from the boroughs to the counties; but, as he understood from the speech of the Prime Minister, that all idea of such a transfer was now abandoned, he would merely say, that, while the proportion of county representatives in England was only 37 per cent of the whole, it was in Ireland at present 62 per cent of the whole; and, under these circumstances, he thought it a most extraordinary proposition to increase the number of country gentlemen, imbued with the same ideas and class prejudices, whichever party they might belong to, and close up so many of the avenues by which the trading and professional classes obtain access to the House. The line of 5,000 which had been adopted in England was no rule for Ireland. The small boroughs were, in fact, quite as independent as some of the larger ones. Mallow was quite as respectable as Athlone, and although the borough of Carrickfergus had a population exceeding 9,000 there were really only 4,028 persons in the town. It was in fact a small county. The only way, in his opinion,
 1766 1767
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, he was opposed to the re-distribution scheme of the Government, and he was glad it had been withdrawn. There was no doubt that the case of Ireland was different from that of England, as there were not so many populous boroughs and large cities; but so far as such claims for representation existed, they ought to be satisfied. The population of Londonderry was 20,875, and it had only one Member, whilst Galway, with 25,000 inhabitants, had two.
 CAPTAIN HAYTER  condemned the course taken by the Government in disfranchising a number of English boroughs, while they allowed such places as Mallow, Kinsale, Downpatrick, Dungannon, Portarlington, and Cashel to be represented. By adopting this course they forfeited all claim to be considered Reformers, and he was sure the first question for the new Parliament would be that of re-distribution of seats in the three countries.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  proposed to omit this clause, and to make provision for it in the Registration Bill.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  proposed to insert the following clause after Clause 26:—
 (In certain boroughs, occupiers of lands, &c., the owners of which are now rated, shall be entitled to be registered if the rate due for the year 1868 has been paid before the first day of July.) "In the Boroughs of Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Belfast, and Waterford, every man who would be entitled to be registered at the next Registration of Parliamentary Voters, under the provisions of section three of this Act, in respect of the occupation of lands, tenements, or hereditaments (for which the owner at the time of the passing of this Act is liable to be rated to the poor rate instead of the occupier), if he had been rated to the poor rate in respect of the said premises and had duly paid the said poor rate, shall, notwithstanding that he has not been so rated, be entitled to be registered at the next Registration of Parliamentary Voters, subject to the following condition:—That all poor rates in respect of the said premises which have become payable after the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven, and before the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight, have been duly paid on or before the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight."
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  thought the clause very objectionable. Those persons in the five largest cities in Ireland had been hitherto exempted from the payment of rates that were usually paid by occupiers. He objected to remove the burden of paying these rates from the owners to the occupiers. He thought the payment of rates should not be enforced the first year.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, he objected to the clause on the ground that it made the possession of the franchise in the five boroughs, as regarded occupiers below £8, depend upon an act being done by other persons over whom the persons affected could have no possible control. And, further, it required that the rates should be paid by the 1st of July, though it was perfectly certain that the Bill itself could not become law by that time. He would propose, as an Amendment, to leave out all the words in the clause after "Waterford," and insert others which would give the vote in the first year with-
 1769
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the clause was drawn up precisely on the same model and contained the same provisions as the clause which it was proposed to insert in the Boundary Bill for England. The principle of all the Bills was that no person was entitled to be registered in respect of the occupation franchise unless he had been rated and had paid his rates; but, as in certain cases there were some occupiers who could not have the opportunity of paying the rates, it would be impossible, if some indulgence were not given, that they could vote this year. If, however, the Amendment of the lion, and learned Gentleman were adopted, the electors in question would have an advantage over other people.
 MR. MONSELL  urged that it was alto gether unfair to put it in the power of another person, who might be of different politics, to deprive his tenants of their votes by not paying the rates.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that the 1st of July was the last day for paying the rates, and he believed that the rates were all paid by this time. The fact was, it was not in the power of any landlord to disfranchise his tenants, because everything the landlord had was liable for the rates, and it was not to be conceived that he would subject himself to penalties for the sake of depriving his tenants of the right to vote.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, that he held in his hand a letter which stated that a large amount of rates due by landlords in Dublin remained unpaid up to yesterday. If that were the case, was it not a monstrous thing that a landlord, by keeping the rates unpaid until the 2nd of July, might have it in his power to deprive his tenants of their votes?
 MR. SYNAN  argued that no principle was at stake, since the operation of the Amendment would expire on the 1st of January next, and that it would be unjust to deprive occupiers of their votes in consequence of the act of their landlords.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he was prepared to agree to the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Serjeant Barry) on the understanding that it applied only to the rate which had just been struck, and not to any future one. He admitted that there was some force in the argument that persons might otherwise be disfranchised through causes beyond their
 1770
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, be would agree to the clause if it was understood to apply only to the rate that had been struck, and not to future rates, He should, however, prefer to have the words of his own clause, which, without the condition appended, would carry out the intention of the hon. and learned Member.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, it would be necessary, either in this Bill or in the new Registration Act, to provide machinery for having the names of these occupiers furnished to the proper authority, so that they might be placed on the register.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, the matter would receive his attention.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he did not know whether Members sitting below the Gangway were supposed to take any part in the debate; but for the last half hour there had been such a conversational tone maintained between the Gentlemen on either side of the table that not one word had been heard below the Gangway. Hon. Members sitting there did not know what was the Question before the House, for the Bill had been so altered that they
 1771
 THE CHAIRMAN : The Question is not the disfranchisement of any boroughs in Ireland. The Question is "That the clause, as amended, be added to the Bill."
 MR. SEBJEANT GASELEE  said, it was no wonder he did not know what the Question was. The exertion of hon. Members in speaking so low must have been very great, and they would doubtless require some rest, and he would therefore propose that the Chairman should report Progress. He would not press his Motion; but he hoped that hon. Members would not speak so low.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he had now to propose a new clause of some importance in connection with University representation. In doing so he was actuated by no unfriendly feeling towards the University of Dublin, but rather the reverse, his object being to strengthen and improve the University representation and at the same time remove a grievance which was now felt by between 700 and 800 qualified graduates in not possessing a share in the University representation of Ireland. The graduates in the Queen's University would have preferred a separate representative in that House; and when he was a Member of the late Government he had the pleasure of making a proposal that they should elect a third University Member for Ireland. This proposal was, however, made in connection with very extensive changes proposed to be made in the Queen's University in Ireland, the intention being to place it on a wider basis, and to make it, in fact, a kind of London University for Ireland. He should not feel justified in renewing that proposal on the present occasion. The Committee had no scheme of distribution of seats before them, and he would now ask them to admit these
 1772 1773 1774
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, it seemed to have been agreed, by the almost general consent of the Committee, not to entertain now any question with regard to the redistribution of seats; but the Amendment was a proposal for re-distribution. It was one of an objectionable character; for it was like a proposal to join the London University with one of the older Universities for the purpose of representation, and such a proposal, when made last year, did not find much favour, while the proposal to join Durham University to that of London was opposed by the Liberal party. The Amendment proposed to join for the purposes of representation two bodies that were essentially distinct—which had different opinions upon almost every subject; and whose combination could produce nothing but discord. The strongest argument against the proposal was that it was not demanded by anyone connected with these two bodies. A distinguished and influential member of Convocation of the Queen's University had written to him—
 "The project of uniting the constituencies of the two Universities as proposed was discussed among ourselves the other day at a committee of Convocation, and unanimously condemned. I do not think a single voice was raised in its favour. We should nominally have two representatives who would virtually represent another institution." 1775
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wholly dissented from the position of the noble Lord, that because the Government had abandoned their scheme of re-distribution they were not to form any new constituency. A more miserable confession of pusillanimity had never proceeded from a Treasury Bench. But how did that confession contrast with the spirit of the right hon. Gentleman at the Head of the Government at Merchant Taylors' Hall the night before, in which, describing the magnificence of the edifice the Government had reared, and the new system of Parliamentary Reform which was to leave its stamp of glory on their names for ever, the right hon. Gentleman spoke of "a political settlement which has successfully reconciled the traditions of our ancient country and the requirements of modern times." The Government had abstained from interfering about six miserable boroughs, which, taken altogether, would not make one good constituency. The noble Lord laid the whole stress of his case on the fact that Trinity College did not wish for that which was proposed. Of course it did not, for it was one of the closest corporations ever known. What was it except the representative of that Established Church which we were determined to do away with? What were the Members for Trinity College chosen
 1776
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WABREN) , in opposing this Motion, said, he did so far more in the interests of the Queen's University than in that of the University which he represented. If the constituencies of the two Universities were joined there would be an overwhelming preponderance of electoral strength in the University of Dublin; but you would introduce an element of discord and of rivalry; the greater University, triumphing over the smaller one, would make itself obnoxious to it, and feelings of antagonism which did not now exist between the two institutions would be sure to prevail. Another objection was that, the Queen's University being thus overborne in election contests, the governing body of that University would be under a constant temptation to increase the number of its members by lowering the standard of its degree. In short, nothing was to be gained by giving to the graduates of the Queen's University that which they were unwilling to take, and, indeed, were wise enough to disclaim. No petition had been presented in favour of this proposal; no meeting had been held in support of it; it was the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Fortescue), and his alone. The Queen's University desired
 1777
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he understood that the Government were not averse, while opposing the grouping together the University of Dublin and the Queen's University, to give the latter representation. He himself, indeed, did not think that the proposal which had just been rejected was the best for giving effect to that object, and he would therefore move that Portarlington, the smallest borough in Ireland, be disfranchised, and the seat taken from it conferred on the Queen's; University.
 THE CHAIRMAN  informed the hon. Gentleman that he must put his proposal in the shape of a clause.
 COLONEL FRENCH  then rose to move a I clause which stood on the Paper in his I name, but was interrupted by
 MR. FAWCETT , who asked the Chairman to be good enough to inform him in what terms his Motion should be couched to render it formal?
 THE CHAIRMAN : The proper way for the hon. Member to proceed is to frame a clause giving effect to his intentions. He can then move the second reading of that clause.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that by the assistance of a Friend a clause embodying his views had been placed in the hands of the Chairman. He begged, therefore, to move that it be now read a second time.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the clause was not ready when the hon. Member for Brighton concluded his speech, and that the hon. Member for Roscommon (Colonel French) had just risen to move a clause of which Notice had been given. Under these circumstances the hon. Member for Roscommon would have the right to move his clause first; but the hon. Member for Brighton would be at liberty to move his clause afterwards.
 MR. FAWCETT  thereupon stated that he should move his clause as soon as he had an opportunity of doing so.
 COLONEL FRENCH  again rose for the; purpose of moving his Amendment, when
 THE CHAIRMAN  pointed out that the convenient course had been usually adopted in Committee of considering the new clauses
 1778 Mr. C. Fortescue
 MR. REARDEN  said, he would not press the clause which stood in his name.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  rose to move the clause of which he had given notice. Its object was to assimilate the law of England and that of Ireland with respect to the expenses of clerks of the peace. In England the clerks of the peace were entitled not only to be repaid the sums expended by them, but were also entitled to reasonable remuneration for their time and trouble in performing the services and duties imposed upon them in regard to the registration of voters. This was not the case in Ireland, and he therefore begged to move the following clause:—
 (Definition of the word "expenses.") "The word 'expenses' contained in section seventy of the Act of the thirteenth and fourteenth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter sixty-nine, shall be deemed to and shall include and apply to all proper and reasonable fees and charges of any clerk of the peace of, or acting for, any county, county of a city, or county of a town, or by any clerk of the peace of, or acting in or for, any borough situate in a county at large, to be hereafter made or charged by him in any year for his trouble, care, and attention in the performance of the services and duties imposed upon him by the said Act or by this Act, in addition to any money actually paid or distributed by him for, or in respect of, any such service or duties as aforesaid."
 MR. G. MORRIS  seconded the Motion. The justice of the case required that these officers should be paid.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he was unable to assent to the insertion of the clause which related to the clerks of the peace for all the counties in Ireland. Those gentlemen were already remunerated suffi-
 1779
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  regretted that the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo) would not agree to the clause, as, in his opinion, there ought to be no difference made in this respect between England and Ireland. If the salary were only one-half its present amount there would be the same number of applications for the situations when vacant.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  reminded the House that the question of the remuneration of clerks of the peace in Ireland had been under the consideration of the Grand Jury Committee upstairs, who, if those officers were not sufficiently paid already, would, in all probability recommend the in crease of their salaries.
 MR. VANCE  thought that, as additional duties would be imposed on the clerks of the peace by this Bill, they were fairly entitled to additional remuneration.
 MR. BRADY  asked why those gentlemen should not be compensated for the additional duties placed upon them?
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, he saw no objection to giving power to the Grand Juries, whose interest it was to keep down the county expenditure, to consider whether or not some reasonable allowance should be made to the clerks of the peace in consideration of the extra duties imposed on them.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN) , observed, if the Amendment should be carried the clerks of the peace in Ireland would be entitled to an increase of salary, and from the inquiries which he had made he saw no reasonable ground for additional payment.
 MR. SYNAN  doubted whether the presentments of the Grand Jury would be compulsory under the Act of Parliament.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he did not believe there was any class of officers in Ireland who deserved less to have an increase of salary. It was generally a complete sinecure, and the holders of the
 1780
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he could not see that the salaries of these gentlemen ought to be at all increased. The exact salaries were fixed at a time when the criminal duties to be discharged were very much greater. The salary now remained the same, though the duties had been much diminished.
 MR. BARROW  contended that the clerks of the peace were entitled to additional emoluments for increased duties.
 LOUD JOHN BROWNE  said, if the salary of the clerks of the peace was to be increased, so also should that of the clerks of the unions, as the increased duties would equally fall upon them.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  intimated that he should again propose the clause in the event of the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Roscommon (Colonel French) being carried.
 MR. VANCE  said, he did not think that at the time the Notice was put upon the Paper that the hon. and learned Member; for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) seriously intended to bring the subject forward, because he had always expressed himself: opposed to disfranchisement. He did not see why an exception should be made in the case of Ireland in respect of the freeman franchise. This franchise had not been interfered with in England; and the hon. and learned Baronet was the last man whom he should have suspected of a wish to disfranchise any class of the citizens of Dublin. In that city there were many Roman Catholic freemen who had not shown them themselves favourable to him when he was a candidate for Dublin; but he should not like to see them disfranchised nevertheless. The hon. and learned Baronet objected to political power being continued in hereditary succession; but was not legislative power so continued in the other branch of the Legislature? He hoped that within the next few days the other House would give another proof of the advantage of hereditary powers in legislation. After one of his elections for Dublin there was a
 1782
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, that in the borough of Galway, which he had the honour to represent, the freemen constituted about a third of the constituency. That they were not hereditary Orangemen was shown by the fact that only about thirty of them were Protestants, while the remaining 400 and odd were Roman Catholics. No doubt the freeman system in Galway had its origin in the wish to encourage a Protestant settlement in that town. There was a recital to that effect in the Act of Parliament; but about the year 1842 a change was made, by which Roman Catholics were admitted to the freedom of the town. If they were to compare the sums expended on elections in Clare as against the expenditure for a similar purpose in Galway, the latter would come out of the ordeal very well. It had been stated that he was the first Member returned for Galway without bribery. Now, he had succeeded a very
 1783
 MR. MONSELL  said, he thought the case against the freemen had been so clearly established by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Clare that he would not have thought it necessary to address the House but for the observations of the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. G. Morris) and the lion. Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance). The hon. Member for Galway had contended that the freemen of Galway were not a corrupt class. In answer to that he would refer to an extract from the Report of a Committee appointed to try the election in 1857, which stated that while many of the voters had eloped the number of those who would be got at and who were proved to have been bribed was 179, of whom all but four were freemen. Even the hon. Member for Armagh spoke of the purity of the freemen of Dublin, and said the Committee appointed to try his election for that city decided that there had been no bribery. That was perfectly true; but the Committee also reported that promises to bribe on the hon. Mem-
 1784
 MR. PIM  said, he believed it was the intention of the Reform Act of 1832 that the anomalous right of freemen to vote should be gradually extinguished. The ordinary franchise was now so low that every respectable man could obtain a vote. The only objection to the Motion of the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir Colman O'Loghlan) was that it did not protect inchoate rights, and he (Mr. Pim) would therefore propose, at the proper time, to add to the Motion an Amendment to preserve these lights. He would vote for the second rending of the clause proposed by the hon. and learned Baronet, and when the second reading was carried he would move the addition of the words—
 "And those who shall claim their freedom within twenty-one years from the passing of this Act, if the claim be on account of birth, or within seven years, if the claim be on account of servitude."
 THE EARL OF MAYO  desired to remind the Committee that throughout the discussions on the Reform question the House had invariably adhered to the principle of refusing to consent to any proposal which would have the effect of disfranchising any body of electors. The proposal now under consideration would, he believed, destroy a long existing franchise on very insufficient
 1785
 MR. SULLIYAN  said, he was of opinion that no one who considered the subject in its true bearings could doubt the advisability of adopting the proposal now before the Committee. ["Oh, oh!"] Hon. Gentlemen said "Oh, oh" so loudly without knowing one iota of the subject. In 1857 an election had taken place in Dublin, and there voted for two of the candidates 6,027 persons of property, station, and position, and those candidates had in the number 728 freemen. There were two other candidates who obtained the votes of 3,267 persons of property and position, and the votes of 3,800 freemen. So that the property votes were disfranchised by the votes of the freemen, who contributed nothing to the taxation of the city, or, indeed, to taxation of any kind. The Government had hitherto congratulated the House on having established the representation on the basis of taxation; but no argument of that nature could be urged in favour of the retention of this franchise. Indeed, in the city of Dublin the freeman vote was simply outrageous. Hon. Members might talk about its being hereditary; but the "grand birthright," as it was termed, according to legal definition, was
 1786
 MR. HENLEY  said, he understood the object of the legislation of the last two years to be to enfranchise, not to disfranchise. When that House was asked last year to disfranchise the freemen of England they had refused to do so, and he should refuse to disfranchise the freemen of Ireland upon the present occasion, The right hon. Member for the county of Limerick (Mr. Monsell) said that some of the freemen of Ireland had wives who might use their influence to make them vote a particular way; but surely it was not an enormity for a man to vote in the way he was required by his wife. One of the privileges that a lady obtained by marriage was the power of influencing her husband in many things, and surely the right hon. Gentleman would not disfranchise all the freemen of Ireland because they had the good taste to get married. But the right hon. Gentleman went a step further, and complained that many of the freemen were guilty of the enormity of having fathers and grandfathers. The right hon. Gentleman said that the freemen had swamped the voters who exercised their votes under a property qualification; but he forgot to mention that in future that property qualification would consist simply in having occupied for a twelvemonth a tenement valued at £4 per annum, whereas the freemen were usually members of corporations who took a pride in being placed upon the register as freemen. Believing that the present Bill was framed for the purpose of enfranchisement, he refused to consent to its being converted into a disfranchising instrument.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had one, and one only, fundamental argument against the proposition which had been made from that (the Opposition) side of the House. He says that the Reform Bill was a Bill by which they enfranchised, but did not disfranchise. [Mr. HENLEY dissented.] He (Mr. Gladstone) took direct issue with the right hon. Gentleman. They disfranchised by the English Reform Bill a great number of persons who possessed the franchise. He could not be aware of this—that when they extended the suffrage in towns they disfranchised a great number of persons. It was true that it might be said that while, on the one hand, these people were deprived of their county votes, they obtained a borough vote; but what became of the leaseholders in towns who were deprived of their vote without receiving any franchise in return? Did the right hon. Gentleman shake his head now? No, he did not, because he could not deny that the statement he had made was correct. When the House had seen occasion to abolish any particular franchise it had not been deterred from so doing by the mere cant word '' disfranchisement." What was the difference between the cases of the leaseholders and of the freemen? The noble Lord (the Earl of Mayo) had said with great truth that at the time of the passing of both the last Reform Act and the Reform Act of 1832 the House refused to disfranchise the freemen; but that circumstance was owing to the existence of a party in the House which was willing to trade upon the favour of this particular class of voters in the expectation of making capital out of them at the next election. The exertions of that party were aided by those of a number of weak brethren on the Opposition Benches, who assisted to postpone the period of the destined immolation of this class of voters—one of the least creditable of the episodes in connection with the last Reform Bill. The real question to be determined on the present occasion was whether or not the freeman franchise operated beneficially to the country. At one period, undoubtedly, it did operate beneficially to the interests of the country, as it afforded a means, and the only means, of the opinions of the working classes being in any way represented in that House. But now that the broad principle of household suffrage had been adopted, there was no longer any reason for maintaining this particular franchise, which every Member
 1788
 MR. J. LOWTHER  remarked that the observations of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire with respect to the corruption of freemen at the last election could only refer to the cases of the boroughs of Lancaster, Totnes, Great Yarmouth, and Reigate. It might be useful to remind the House of the exact state of the case. Out of the 1,473 registered electors in the first of these boroughs 1,006 were freemen; and therefore it was not extraordinary that a large proportion of the corrupt electors of that borough were freemen. In the case of Totnes only half a dozen out of the 400 electors were freemen; and therefore no very large proportion of the corruption in that borough.
 1789
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had not the figures by him at that moment; but he could tell the hon. Gentleman that he was not so entirely unaccustomed to the handling of statistics as to be misled by the gross proportion as between freemen and householders which he had quoted in the case of Lancaster. The comparison he drew was not between the gross number of guilty freemen, and the gross number of guilty householders, but between the proportion of guilty and innocent freemen and the proportion of guilty and innocent householders; and, if the hon. Gentleman would take the trouble to refer to authentic documents, he would find that they would bear out what he (Mr. Gladstone) had stated.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Lowther) had given some electoral facts with regard to England; he would give one; fact with respect to Ireland. A Parliamentary Commission reported on the Galway election, in 1857, that 179 voters in the borough had been guilty of receiving bribes, and that of these 179 voters there were only four who wore not freemen.
 MR. VANCE  said, in regard to Galway, he might remind the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Fortescue) that since the year 1857 two petitions had been presented against the sitting Members for Galway: and so much had the freemen improved that not a single charge of corruption had been established against them.
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, that in 1865 two petitions were presented against the Members returned for Galway. It was shown that 92 per cent of the constituency had registered their votes, and after a thorough inquiry the petitions were declared frivolous and vexatious. That took place ten years after the occurrence upon which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. C. Fortescue) had relied for proof of the unfitness of the Irish freemen to retain their; franchise.
 MR. FAWCETT  proposed that Portarlington be disfranchised, and that its Member be given to the Queen's University. He should much regret the absence from the House of his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Lawson); but he thought the Queen's University was justly entitled to representation, and as the Government had objected to the proposal to unite it with Dublin University the only alternative was to provide it a Member at the expense of the smallest borough. the population of Portarlington was under 3,000, there were only 106 electors, and at the last election his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Lawson) was returned by 46 votes—35 being given to the other candidate. The Queen's University, on the other hand, though only established a few years, would form a constituency of nearly 800, comprising a considerable portion of the intelligence of the country, and with an annual increment of 100 or 150 the number would probably increase in six or seven years to 1,500. This was not merely a question of re-distribution, but of enfranchisement; and persona who had passed through a curriculum as severe as that of Oxford or Cambridge ought not to be debarred a privilege that would be enjoyed by every University of the slightest consequence in England and Scotland.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  stated that the redistribution portion of the Bill having been abandoned, the Government could not entertain this proposal.
 MR. CHICHBSTER FORTESCUE  advised his hon. Friend (Mr. Fawcett) not to press his proposition, the present not being a final measure with regard to Irish representation, and the University question being still unsolved.
 MR. FAWCETT , contending that his proposal involved an important principle, felt bound to take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 COLONEL FRENCH  rose to move the following clause:—
 (Occupation franchise in counties.) "From and after the passing of this Act, the first section of the Act of the thirteenth and fourteenth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter sixty-nine, and all other sections or parts of the same Act which relates to or affect the franchise conferred by the said first section, or the registration of voters upon whom it is conferred, and in which are the words 'twelve pounds' in reference to the said franchise, shall be read and construed as if the words 'more than eight pounds' had been used and were substituted in the said first and other sections, instead of and for the words' twelve pounds,' so and in such manner that subject to all the provisions of the said Act, the occupation of lands, tenements, or hereditaments rated at the net annual value of more than eight pounds shall be as effectual to qualify any man to be registered as a voter, and when registered to vote at any Election of Members to serve in Parliament for any county in Ireland to be held after the passing of this Act as the occupation of lands, tenements, and hereditaments rated at the net annual value of twelve pounds and upwards was before the passing of this Act; and in all provisions relating to such occupation, registration, or voting, and in all lists, returns, precepts, notices, or other forms made or issued in pursuance of the provisions of the Registration Acts, the words 'more than eight pounds' shall, when necessary, be substituted for the words 'twelve pounds.'" s. 1792 s. s. 1793
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that if the proposal of the Government with regard to the Irish county franchise was to make any substantial difference between the county franchises in England and Ireland, there would be great weight in what had been said by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down. The result of passing the Bill before the House would be that the county franchise in Ireland would be placed on precisely the same footing with the county franchise in England as fixed by the Bill of last year. The fact was that Ireland had anticipated England in this matter. In 1850 an Act was passed which created for the first time in Ireland an occupation franchise, fixed at £12. So it had remained ever since, and had given general satisfaction. The effect of this change was an enormous enfranchisement in Ireland, the number of county voters being raised from 41,000 to 176,000 or 178,000. When, therefore, it was said that no provision had been made for the extension of the county franchise in Ireland, the fact was lost sight of that a very large extension had already taken place—a larger proportional extension, he believed, than had been effected in England by the Act of last year. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman had not shown that there was anything in the circumstances of Ireland to justify a lower county franchise than in England; and his proposition rested principally upon the difference between valuation here and in Ireland, which he said had the effect of placing the franchise in Ireland at a higher figure than in England. In 1852 it was enacted that valuation in Ireland should be based upon the value of agricultural produce, and also upon the principle adopted in this country; but, although there was a difference in the process between the two countries, the result in both was very nearly the same. The scale of valuation for produce laid down in 1852 was somewhat too low. It was conceded on both sides that the basis of the valuation was not a satisfactory one, and it would be absolutely necessary for the Government in power next year to propose great alterations in it. In the Bill of the hon. Mem-
 1794
 MR. SYNAN  said, that the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo) had forgotten that this was an economical question as far as concerned the two countries. Did £12 rating in England represent the equivalent of £12 rating in Ireland? It was not the figures we had to deal with, but the persons; and the £12 occupiers in the two countries belonged to different classes. It could not be maintained that £100 at the West End of London was equal to £100 in a provincial town. On that principle, when this House fixed the occupation franchise for Ireland at £8 the Lords raised it to £15, and £12 was adopted as a compromise. Valuation in England was fixed by local authority on the principle of the letting value. This must necessarily give ft higher valuation than fixing it for the purposes of taxation; and it was admitted that the present valuation for taxation in Ireland was far below the letting value of the land. Apply that with the economical reasons stated to the figures
 1795
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he was sure the great majority of the Committee would agree with him in the opinion that one of the most unpleasant ways of passing a hot summer evening in the month of June was in discussing the clauses of a so-called Irish Reform Bill. [ A laugh. ignis fatuus 1796 damnosa hœreditas
 MR. GREGORY  maintained that the proposed reduction of the franchise would have the effect of placing the counties in Ireland below the bar of public opinion, and said he felt perfectly convinced that the result in Connaught, at all events, would be to hand over the representation to a certain number of large landowners with a small and miserable tenantry. At the present moment a General Election was impending in Ireland more momentous in its character than any which had been held since the days of Catholic Emancipation; and he did not believe that any landlord in that country would be so mischievous or so daring as to endeavour to control his tenants in the exercise of the franchise. [Mr. OSBORNE: Lots.] The retribution would fall upon their order if they did so; but, be that as it might, one thing, at all events, was quite clear, that it was not the tenant with good means who could stand out against his landlord who would be influenced in giving his vote, but the poor miserable tenant on whom his right hon. and gallant Friend sought to confer the franchise. Entertaining that view, he felt it to be his duty to oppose the right hon. and gallant Gentleman's Motion.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that after instituting the most careful inquiry into the subject, he had come to the conclusion that the change which his right hon. and gallant Friend advocated would, if carried into effect, result in no party advantage whatsoever. He adeed, his own experience had shown him that the poorer class of tenantry in Ireland were prepared to display ns much independence in contested elections as those who occupied a higher social position. The re-distribution of seats had been left to a future Parliament—the freeman's franchise
 1797
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he was of opinion that a compromise might be advantageously arrived at. He believed there was no strong or general feeling in Ireland on the subject of the county franchise, either one way or the other, and that many of the Liberal party in that country thought it would not serve Irish interests to lower the county franchise to £8. The Irish Liberals were generally of opinion that if any considerable extension of the franchise were made, it would be desirable to divide the large counties, such as Cork, Galway, and Mayo, as the expense would be so great that none but very rich candidates would be able to stand for them. Many hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House were adverse to the proposed reduction of the franchise, but they did not like to vote against their party. For his own part he thought it would be better to compromise the matter by fixing the county franchise at £10.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Some statements hare been made in the course of this debate the effect of which will be to justify those who decline making any Motion for the improvement of this Bill. My hon. Friend the Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) takes a very despairing view of the measure, which he regards as containing no provisions of any value; and my hon. Friend is consistent, for in his opinion the only thing to be done is to give to the electors the protection of secret voting. Now, I can easily understand the course of those who with my hon. Friend think that such protection ought to be given; but as I have never supported secret voting in England, I should hesitate to introduce it into Ireland in this exceptional way, and therefore I cannot walk in the footsteps of my hon. Friend. Much has been said about the dependence of the Irish voters, and I have no doubt it hag been said with a great deal of truth; but, at the same
 1798 1799 s. 1800 "I am one of those who are in favour of an extensive franchise, and if I had had the opportunity of giving my vote on a former occasion, I should have given it in favour of £8 as against £15." 1801
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped, considering the comparatively early hour, they might be allowed to proceed with the other clause.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the Committee having just divided on that Question, it could not be put again now.
 MR. BRADY  rose to move the following clause:—
 "And, in order to enable the electors to exercise the elective franchise according to their conscience, be it Enacted, That their votes at all Elections of Members to serve in any future Parliament shall be taken by ballot."
 MR. DISRAELI : From communications that have reached me the last ten minutes, I understand the Amendment of the hon. Gentlemen is now the only one left for us to discuss. Hence, I think the Committee will see that it is most important we should if possible close this matter to-night. At the same time, I am very desirous in every way to meet the convenience of the hon. Gentleman and of the Committee. I am perfectly ready either
 1802
 MR. BERKELEY  said, he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Leitrim would adopt the suggestion which had just been made to him.
 MR. BRADY  said he could not accept it. [An Hon. MEMBER: You will never get such a chance again.]
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that Members on that side were as anxious as the Government to bring the debate to a conclusion; but he begged to state that the question of the ballot in Ireland stood in a different position from what it did in England.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the hon. Member could not proceed to discuss the question of the ballot, no Motion upon that subject having yet been made. The only question at present before the Committee, was the Motion that he do leave the Chair.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he did not at all wish to discuss the ballot but merely to say that, being a very important question, it was difficult to discuss it at that hour of the night. On the other hand, to bring up the clause on the Report was ns much as to say that they were not to discuss it at all.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman was justified in proposing that they should not proceed now, but that the question should be raised on the Report, in order that it might be discussed on a future day. But he thought they were entitled to an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman that the Report would be considered at such a period of the evening as to enable the question to be discussed.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he should not think of bringing on the Report of the Irish Reform Bill, especially under the circumstances adverted to, at any other than a reasonable hour. His object in making the suggestion was to insure to the hon. Member an opportunity for a fair discussion of his proposal, which he seemed to think it was not likely to obtain at present.
 MR. OSBORNE  thought the hon. Member for Leitrim was making a very great mistake. He never would have again a similar opportunity. Certainly it was not likely that upon a topic of equal importance he would never again address so large a House. He believed the question was thoroughly well understood, though he did not know what its fate might be. He himself should vote with him, and the advice he gave was this—let there be a short discussion, and let them go to a vote that evening.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  begged the hon. Member for Leitrim (Mr. Brady) not to allow himself to be drawn into giving up the question, as he would never get such another opportunity. As the hon. Member valued the question, and was anxious that the proceedings in that House should not be misunderstood in Ireland, he (Sir John Gray) pressed him to go on with the question. They had now a large House, and he ought to have the question fairly discussed and voted upon, in order that he might ascertain the opinion of the House whether the Irish people, whom they preferred to enfranchise, should be free to give their votes, or merely the puppets of those who exercised an unfair authority over them.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, as no other Member was disposed to move the addition of this clause, he rose to move in the words of the Notice which had been given—
 "And, in order to enable the electors to exercise the elective franchise according to their conscience, Be it Enacted, That their votes at all Elections of Members to serve in any future Parliament shall be taken by ballot." 1804
 MR. BRADY  said, the course taken by his hon. Friend was a most unusual course.
 MR. KENNEDY  seconded the Motion. The great difficulty in dealing with Ireland was to know what was wrong with the country, and what remedies were really required. No information worth having could be gained on those points at present, for the majority of the representatives under the present system were mere delegates returned to represent class opinions. The House would never be able to pass ameliorative measures for Ireland until the electors of Ireland were enabled to vote freely.
 COLONEL W. STUART , having remarked that it was evident the Irish Members did not desire to discuss the question, interpreted the desire for the ballot in Ireland as part of a scheme for handing over the people bound hand and foot to the priesthood, for it was evident the ballot would be no protection against the priests.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, the Committee was as able to vote on the question at once as it would ever be; everyone's mind had been made up long ago on the question.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had thought the suggestion he made to the hon. Member who gave notice of the Motion (Mr. Brady) was accepted by him and by the Committee. ["No!"] The alternative course was to proceed with the debate, which the Government was perfectly ready to do. The state of Public Business made it very undesirable to report Progress, and he was quite sure the hon. Member for Tralee (the O'Donoghue) would on reflection act in accordance with the general wishes of the Committee, because that was a course he always pursued. He promised hon. Gentlemen that in the event of the matter being postponed, the Report should be brought up at a sufficiently early hour to permit them fully to discuss the question at that stage.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he hoped the Committee would either allow the question to stand over, or proceed to a division.
 MR. BRADY  said, he had no objection
 1805
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, be would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BRADY  gave Notice that, on the bringing up of the Report on the Irish Re form Bill, he should move the clause of which he had given Notice—
 "And, in order to enable the electors to exercise the elective franchise according to their conscience, Be it Enacted, That their votes at all Elections of Members to serve in any future Parliament shall be taken by ballot."
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, that at that late hour of the night he would not press the clause of which he had given Notice, Although the clause was of importance, still it was of greater importance that progress should be made with the Bill.
 MR. BOUVERIE  thought that the matter more immediately before them was the making of arrangements for meetings of the House at two o'clock exactly conformable to the meetings at twelve, only that, instead of their sitting till four and re-assembling at six, they should, when the Minister chose, meet at two and continue to sit till seven. He understood the Prime Minister to say that the two fashions of holding Morning Sittings were still to go on together. Now that, he thought, would be a very inconvenient practice, and they would never know the day before a Morning Sitting whether it would be the pleasure of the Minister that they should meet at twelve and sit till
 1760
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he did not think it right that the House should be supposed by consenting to the second reading to be committed to such a principle as that suggested by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If the course now proposed were adopted, it should be on the understanding that the object was one of inquiry, and that the House had not assented to the principle now contended for.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, it is the intention of the Lords of the Council to continue the Order relating to the importation of French and Spanish Cattle until after the meeting of the new Parliament, unless the case alluded to by the hon. Member should arise,
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I am not aware, Sir, of the paragraph in  The Times
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether an Order has been issued by the Governor General in Council for India—
 "Relative to providing a room in the lines or European regiments in India to which the men can resort for private reading and prayer, and for holding prayer meetings and other meetings of a similar character, and directing that a room of a suitable size, with such furniture as may be deemed to fit it for the purposes above mentioned, shall be considered one of the recognized requirements in the barracks of every British regiment or considerable detachment of British troops: and, further, that a residence would be assigned to a scripture reader in the married quarters."
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to know whether if such an application were made it would be granted?
 MR. AYRTON  explained that in what he had said awhile ago he did not intend any discourtesy to the right hon. Gentleman. All that he meant was, that he and those who agreed with him reserved to themselves the fullest liberty to discuss the matter when the Committee had made their Report.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it would be unnecessary to pursue the debate upon this Bill, as he understood the hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) was desirous of withdrawing his Amendment, in order that
 1806
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, If it is the intention of the Government to place the troops who have served in Abyssinia on the same footing as troops serving a campaign in India as regards batta, or extra pay?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to withdraw the grant referred to by the hon. Gentleman, it having been withdrawn already. There was no provision for the £500 in the Estimates of this year; and notice being taken of the omission an explanation was given at the time. The discontinuance of the £500 had not been fatal to the institution, for the aid which it required was much larger: and the Government, after investigating the matter, were of opinion that they would not be authorized in recommending any enlargement of the grant, the results of the institution not being, in fact, of a satisfactory character. They were of opinion that provision for a cheap musical education should form part of our national system; but, although the subject had engaged not a little of their
 1754
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, Her Majesty's Government do not intend to introduce any measure on the subject of Irish railways during the present Session. I should say that by the issue of a Commission the Government have shown that they intend to enter into the question as a matter of Business, and give every consideration to the matter, but they will not be prepared in this Session to state what their views are.
 MR. DISRAELI : In answer to the Question of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) I would observe that the Standing Order which I am now moving is precisely that which the House adopted last year. There is no change in it whatever. Last year we had the double system of two and twelve o'clock sittings, as might suit the convenience of the House, and no inconvenience was felt from that arrangement. Indeed, many Gentlemen thought it was better, on the whole, to have that alternative arrangement. For myself, if I am obliged, in the conduct of Government Business, to have recourse to a Morning Sitting—which always, of course, do with regret—I am in favour of two o'clock, as the hour of meeting. But last year there were Gentlemen who objected to be deprived of the opportunity of meeting at twelve, if the House wished to do so; and I therefore thought that in reviving, as we probably should have to revive, the plan of Morning Sittings, it would be most prudent to follow exactly the precedent of last year, which worked sucessfully, and to adopt the Standing Order of last Session without any change whatever. With respect to the Question of the right hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) as to the general course of Public Business, I may say that I am not at all aware that I have deviated from the general view I laid before the House some time ago. I then stated that the wish of the Government—of course, speaking generally, as one must always do upon the conduct of Business which touches so many measures of importance—was, that we should proceed with what I call the Supplementary Reform Bills, with as much despatch as possible. And I must say that we have proceeded with considerable despatch; that we have made very great advances with those Bills; and I do not anticipate that any great delay is now pos-
 1761
 MR. DISRAELI : I have now to move the revival of the Standing Order recently agreed to on the subject of Morning Sittings, and which regulates our Sittings when we meet at two o'clock and adjourn at seven. This Standing Order does not, however, interfere with our Sittings when for any reason the House shall prefer to meet at the usual hour of twelve and to adjourn at four.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had got the best assistance in the House in connection with this subject. He found that by moving the Instructions in the form he had stated everything necessary would he done, and he believed the public interests would be just as effectually protected as the interests of private persons.
 MR. DISRAELI : I have already said that when the three Supplementary Reform Bills have passed this House I should then consider what are the most efficacious means we can adopt to carry
 1762
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought he had been misunderstood. He did not ask the House to say that there was no objection to the Post Office taking possession of the telegraphs belonging to existing companies, but to affirm the principle that there was no objection on public grounds to the Post Office working telegraphs.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman that the whole subject
 1807
 MR. MONK  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Plans for the proposed New Embassy House at Therapia, which were sent home by Colonel Gordon, and for which a recent Vote was taken, have been set aside; and, if so, whether it is the intention of the Government to have new plans prepared upon the basis of the Estimate already submitted to Parliament?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought it important to guard against the Government obtaining a dangerous monopoly in their control of telegraphic communications. Seeing the doubts that had been expressed on both sides, he did not think it possible that the Report of the Committee should be accepted by the House without discussion.
 MR. NORWOOD  pointed out the position in which a portion of the provincial Press would be placed in case this Bill were postponed to another Session. Three-fourths or four-fifths of the newspapers in the provinces had supported the measure, and the result of this was that several of the proprietors had been threatened and intimidated by the Telegraph Company. In one case, for instance, a newspaper in Belfast had presumed to publish an article approving this measure, whereupon a letter was received from the secretary, in London, containing the following paragraph:—
 "The time appears to have arrived when the directors should seriously consider whether the contract with your journal should be continued, and I have no doubt they will come to a decision which may afford you an opportunity of making your own news arrangements on less exorbitant terms."
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked, what course was to be taken with respect to the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that the Report of the Marriage Law Commission was ready, and he hoped would be laid on the table before the end of the Session
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he was somewhat disappointed with the course that, had been pursued by the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), who, he understood, was to have proposed a Motion to be substituted in lieu of the one he had intended to withdraw. He trusted that the hon. Gentleman would propose the Resolution in his possession, and in the readiness of the House to adopt it he was perfectly ready to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that as the matter referred to by the hon. Member was settled at the Treasury, he would answer the Question. The plans had not been set set aside, but the cheaper of those sent home had been selected. From unavoidable circumstauces some little delay had occured in the carrying out of the work.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied that no Officer of the Royal Engineers could be held responsible for the works performed at the Embassy. He supposed the hon. Gentleman alluded to complaints made in that House a few years since with respect to the withdrawal of the clerk of the works from Constantinople. No doubt the expenditure at that time was incurred by the Office of Works here through their agent at Constantinople; but he was not prepared to say that the expenditure showed any excess over the Estimates.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that being himself favourable to the Bill he had been in communication with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and hon. Members who took an opposite line, with a view to prevent delay in its discussion upstairs. He thought the best course would be to read the Bill a second time, on the understanding that it should be referred to a Select Committee, to be constituted in the way in which Hybrid Committees usually were; but special Instructions should be given that they should make inquiries with reference to the questions put with so much force the other night by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire—namely, the question of monopoly; that of the power of the Government to make less charges to the Press and other bodies than were to be paid by the public generally; provisions for secresy and for assuring the public as to the telegraph not being abused by Government for political purposes; the dealing with submarine cables and so forth. He had prepared Instructions which had received the concurrence of both parties, and which the Chancellor of the Exchequer would move.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  asked if the Bill was a Hybrid Bill, who was to represent the public? If the Bill was referred to a Hybrid Committee the House would not commit itself to the principle, because the Preamble would have to be proved before the Committee.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had understood that the Government would not bring on this Bill after 12 o'clock. He could not understand how the House could be asked to read the Bill a second time
 1809
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If a Copy of the Treason Felony Act, lately passed by the Legislature of the Colony of New South Wales, has been received by the Colonial Office; and, if so, whether there is any objection to lay a Copy of it upon the Table of the House, with any Despatch that may have accompanied the same?
 COLONEL KINGSCOTE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why, considering the hardships to individuals and the inconvenience to Regiments from Quartermasters of Militia not being able to retire on a pension or retiring allowance, he cannot provide for such pension or retiring allowance in Vote No. 27 of the present Army Estimates, and so enable him to introduce a clause into the Militia Pay and Clothing Bill to give effect for the future to such pension or allowance; whether a Clause providing for pensions and retiring allowances was not always inserted in the Militia Pay and Clothing Acts prior to 1829, when Quartermasters were no longer appointed to Militia Regiments, and why it should not have been re-inserted on their re-appointment in 1854; and whether some Quartermasters are not now receiving pensions under the Acts passed before 1829?
 COLONEL KINGSCOTE  said, he wished to know, Whether he understood the right
 1757
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was disposed to submit to the authority of the right hon. Gentleman as to the course of Public Business. The Prime Minister a few days ago made a definite declaration that he intended to take the Irish Reform Bill, the Scotch Reform Bill, and the Boundary Bill before any other measures. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that he would put those Bills down on Government nights, so that they might arrive at the House of Lords with the least possible delay. It was now intended, as he understood, to interpose other business before those Bills were gone on with. He therefore wished to have some definite declaration from the right hon. Gentleman on the subject; for with all respect for the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall), who had asked a Question of the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council (Lord Robert Montagu), that Minister was not the person to interrogate as to the Business of the House; he expressed hopes that something would come on—for instance, the Metropolitan Cattle Market Bill—when probably there was no chance of its doing so, causing great inconvenience to hon. Gentlemen who stayed there with the idea that the measure could be taken when it really could not. He desired also to remind the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) that in speaking of the Electric Telegraphs Bill and the Metropolitan Cattle Market Bill he used these words, "they are not formally withdrawn from the Paper." What was the meaning of that, except that substantially the Government did not really expect to pass them into law this Session, but desired to have them discussed, and perhaps made the foundation of legislation in some future year?
 MR. HORSFALL  said, seeing that the Order in Council for the admission of Foreign Cattle into certain Ports in this Country specified that such Order was to continue in force until "the end of July, and no longer," he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Council, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to renew such Order—say for twelve months, or at least until the assembly of the new Parliament, except, of course, in the event of any case of the Cattle Disease arising?
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not agree to any arrangement with regard to this Bill until after its second reading. The subject was one of great importance to the commercial interest of the country, and any delay with regard to it would be regarded with great jealousy.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to legislate for Irish Railroads during the present Session; and, if not whether before the close of it, they will make a statement as to the plan they mean to adopt in dealing with those interests in the future Parliament?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he did not think the public interests ought to be handed over to a Department. A Parliamentary Inquiry ought to have pre-
 1808
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State
 1758
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Colonial Office has been informed of the failure of the Crops in Ceylon, and of the dying out of large numbers of the Native population; and, whether it is proposed to institute any inquiry, or to take any special measures to meet the scarcity of food?
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Educacation, Whether he is aware that a paragraph in  The Times "Determined to request the Russian Government to appoint an International Commission to consider the possibility of arresting the cattle plague in its place of origin, the Steppes of Russia?"
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am not in a position to give any promise on that subject.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he was afraid it would not be in his power to provide pensions or retiring allowances to Quartermasters of Militia in the present Army Estimates. It would be very irregular to add a new item to the present Estimates, and the only mode would be by introducing a Supplementary Estimate. The matter was certainly deserving of consideration, and should receive it; but it was not sufficiently pressing to justify a Supplementary Estimate.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the matter was one entirely for the consideration of the Governor General of India.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that an Order bad been issued at the instance of the Commander-in-Chief for India, in which it was stated that a room of suitable size should be considered one of the recognized necessities of European regiments in India. As regarded the other part of the Question of the hon. Member, it rested altogether with the authorities in India; but if the lion. Member would put the Question formally to him he would send it on to them.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Sir, a communication has been received from Sir Robert Napier, strongly recommending that batta should be given to the troops. Her Majesty's Government, considering the great hardships the troops have undergone in the campaign, and the great losses they have suffered from wear and tear, have accordingly decided to grant the troops six months' batta.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, he had not officially received a copy of the Report of the Municipal Commissioners of Bombay for 1867. The India statistics were nearly ready, with the exception of certain Returns, respecting which further communications with India were required; and arrangements had been made for the issue of sheets of the India Atlas by the Surveyor General of India. He believed some further issues would shortly be made.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : It is the intention, Sir, of the Government to issue the Commission to which the hon. Gentleman refers. It is our earnest wish to endeavour to induce some Members of both Houses of Parliament to serve on the Commission; but, having regard to the Business of both Houses and the convenience of Members, it will be impossible to appoint the Commission until the termination of the Session.
 LORD STANLEY : I regret, Sir, that I cannot give the hon. Member the information he requires. I have seen the paragraph in  The Times
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I have read the Report of the Neutrality Commissioners with great interest and attention, and I may say that in the general scope of their recommendations Her Majesty's Government entirely concur. But with regard to the details of those recommendations I require more leisure than I have yet had for considering them before I give an opinion upon them. In the actual state of Business I conceive that it would be quite useless to attempt to legislate on the subject during the present Session; but if I have the opportunity I shall certainly be prepared to do so when the new Parliament meets.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the Amendments which had been made in "another place." Two years ago the late Government had brought under consideration a Bill for facilitating the establishment of oyster fisheries. Lord Derby's Administration took it up, devoted much attention to it, improved it and passed it into a law. It was working well. Many applications had taken place under the Act for the establishment of oyster fisheries, and so far as he knew, the measure was giving general satisfaction. In the Sea Fisheries Bill it was thought desirable that all the statutes relating to sea fisheries should be consolidated into one, and therefore the Oyster Bill was put into the Sea Fisheries Bill as a matter of consolidation. Important Amendments had been made in the Bill in the House of Lords, which, if adopted by Parliament, would go far to defeat all the main objects of the measure intended to encourage the establishment of oyster fisheries. It might be right enough to amend, but it was not the proper way of doing it in a Consolidation Bill without notice or discussion. If the Oyster Fisheries Act was to be repealed, it should be brought under the consideration of Parliament; the object should not be effected in an indirect manner by the insertion of Amendments in a consolidating Bill by the other House of Parliament. The Bill enabled persons to appropriate unproductive, useless areas on the sea-shore for the cultivation of oysters; but care was to be taken that al! proprietary and other rights should be respected, that all parties concerned should have due notice and an opportunity of being heard against any such appropriation of the sea-shore—not only before the Board of Trade, but if they thought fit before a Select Committee of the House, as in the
 1858 1859
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he could not deny that he preferred the clauses as they stood in the Bill passed by that House, and he certainly agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton that this alteration would to some extent curtail and fetter the operation of the Board of Trade, and so far impede the granting of Orders for oyster fisheries. At the same time there was considerable force in the arguments which induced the House of Lords to adopt these Amendments—namely, that a Government Department ought not to have the power of interfering with or taking away any property or right, however small or ill-defined, but that such power ought to be vested in Parliament alone. Inserting the Amendments in a consolidating Act might not have been the best way of proceeding; but they knew that it was the constant practice of Parliament to unite amendment with consolidation, and he did not think that they could find fault with the House of Lords on such a ground. The House of Lords thought that the power ought to be vested in Parliament alone to take away rights, and that it would be hard to call upon people to defend their rights before Parliament because the Board of Trade had made an Order which would curtail those rights. Very high legal authority had declared that the clauses in the Oyster Fisheries Bill were hardly constitutional, and ought not to have passed in 1866. That was a question which he must leave the right hon. Gentleman to settle with a former and probably future Colleague of his own; which, if they might judge from the ordinary sources of information, he would not find a very easy task. On the other hand, it might be said that in practice the present Board of Trade had been so careful of existing interests that not only had there been no objections on that score in respect of any of the Orders already issued, but they had drawn upon themselves complaints, he might even say taunts, from people speaking and writing in the interest of applicants for grants of oyster fisheries, on the ground of their being unduly scrupulous; so that
 1860
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he believed that the acceptance of the Lords' Amendments would counteract the benefit conferred by the Act passed two years ago. He trusted that in all that was done with regard to this subject, care would be taken to respect in every way the rights of the foreshore proprietors.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he would support the Motion made by his right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton. The Act of two years ago was passed in consequence of the recommendations made by a Commission appointed to inquire into the
 1861
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he hoped that the House would accept these clauses which had been inserted in the Bill with the strictest attention to public rights, and in thorough harmony with the spirit of the Constitution.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as the Bill originally stood owners of foreshore were liable to deprivation of their rights by an Order of the Board of Trade, confirmed by an Act of Parliament, and the only way in which they could preserve their rights was by defending them in the passage of the Act through Parliament. The House of Lords perceived that this was a very strong piece of legislation, and they now endeavoured by these clauses to provide a remedy; for it certainly was hard that a man who had  bonâ fide
 MR. LAWSON  said, that the working of the Act had been attended with great benefit in Ireland, and it was unreasonable that so well-considered a measure as this had proved to be should be defeated by a side-wind, as now contemplated by the other branch of the Legislature. It appeared to him that the tendency of the Amendments was not so much to protect real rights as to give a colour to imaginary rights, and thus occasion useless litigation.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he agreed with the right hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Milner Gibson) as regarded oyster fisheries; but must remind him that other rights were affected
 1862
 MR. COLERIDGE  said, he feared the Attorney General argued on the erroneous basis that it was desirable to grant rights for compensation, and to treat the matter entirely as a private concern, without admitting those large considerations to which a great Government Department ought always to give due weight. The power of the Crown over foreshores had been vested in the Board of Trade, and administered by that Deportment to the general satisfaction. He highly approved the Circular of the Board recently presented to the House, because it dealt with foreshores on the principle that the public was concerned in them. The case quoted by the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Waldegrave-Leslie) did not affect the expediency of issuing a general Order by the Board of Trade. No doubt a simple representation from the Corporation of Hastings would have secured a due consideration for its rights under the Royal Charter.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge) had failed to appreciate the point under discussion. The more careful legislators in the House of Lords, with whom he agreed, objected to depriving subjects by force of rights they had long enjoyed. [Mr. MILNER GIBSON: There is compensation provided for.] That was precisely what the Lords objected to. Rights were to be taken away by force and compensation given. The only argument used against the view taken by the other House was that some parties would lie by by design while their rights were being dealt with; but the Lords said that if the rights of individuals were to be interfered with it should be done by an Act of Parliament, and not by a Government Department.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he trusted the House of Lords' proviso would be maintained as far as Scotch foreshores were concerned; but if the Irish Members parti-
 1863
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that parties whose rights were affected had ample means for protecting their interests. Their Lordships appeared to attach some peculiar sacredness to the rights of foreshores which entitled them to be treated in a different manner to that in which Parliament had acted in sanctioning inclosures and all public improvements.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he must complain very strongly of the language of the Circular drawn up by the Board of Trade. The Crown having always failed to establish their rights to the foreshores in Scotland in a straightforward manner, it was now sought to circumvent the proprietors of foreshores by the systematic course of action laid down for the Department.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, it was altogether a mistake to suppose that the Board of Trade were grasping at any jurisdiction. The Bill merely recited the law as it now stood; and it was the other House of Parliament who wished to alter the law, and deprive the Crown of its rights. The Crown in this case was but the personification of the public interests, and the Board of Trade, in the name of the Crown, were merely protecting the public. He recommended the House to let well alone, and not to alter the existing state of the law.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to explain. He had been misunderstood by the learned Attorney General. The Motion affected no rights, altered no proprietary rights, and set up no titles. His only object was to apply to rights over the sea-shore the same formula which was applied to rights over land—namely, consent or compensation. But their Lordships would have no compensation.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE , in moving the insertion of Clause B, as inserted by the Lords, said, he should like to say a few words on this Amendment. In 1839 a Convention was concluded with France
 1864 quasi 1865 ipso facto mare clausum, 1866 "The Irish Fishery Commissioners may from Time to Time lay before Her Majesty in Council Byelaws for the Purpose of restricting or regulating the dredging for Oysters on any Oyster Beds or Banks situate within the Distance of Twenty Miles, measured from a straight Line drawn from Wicklow Head to Carnsore Point on the Coast of Ireland, but outside of the exclusive Fishery Limits of the British Islands, and all such Byelaws shall apply equally to all Boats and Persons on whom they may be binding. It shall be lawful for Her Majesty, by Order in Council, to do all or any of the following things—namely, (a) To direct that such Byelaws shall be observed; (b) To impose Penalties not exceeding Twenty Pounds for the Breach of such Byelaws; (c) To apply to the Breach of such Byelaws such (if any) of the Enactments in force respecting the Breach of the Regulations respecting Irish Oyster Fisheries within the exclusive Fishery Limits of the British Islands, and with such Modifications and Alterations as may he found desirable; (d) To revoke or alter any Order so made. Provided that the Length of Close Time prescribed by any such Order shall not be shorter than that prescribed for the Time being by the Irish Fishery Commissioners in respect of Beds or Banks within the exclusive Fishery Limits of the British Islands. Every such Order shall be binding on all British Sea-Fishing Boats, and on any other Sea-Fishing-Boats in that Behalf specified in the Order, and on the Crews of such Boats."
 MR. GREGORY  said, that Ireland had great cause to complain of the three-mile limit, because the greater portion of some of their most valuable oyster beds were outside that distance, and consequently the great difficulty was how to protect that portion which was outside the municipal limit. He objected to the power of making by-laws being taken from the Sea Fisheries Commissioners and placed in the Board of Trade. At present every person interested in the oyster fishery had full opportunities of making objections, and in that respect the system had been found to work well. But it was now proposed to put an end to that system, and instead of their being one set of by-laws and one uniform limit, the Bill would create two limits, to be regulated by two sets of by-laws; a state of things that could only produce confusion. The effect of the Amendment he proposed would be
 1867
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, that as one of the Members of the recent Fisheries Commission, he desired to observe that, in the opinion of Professor Huxley and Mr. Caird and himself, no close season was desirable at all, and that the late failure in the supply of oysters was attributable to the exceptionable state of temperature that had been experienced, and other extraneous circumstances, and not to over-dredging or to the non-enforcement of a close season. The Commissioners them-selves were therefore willing to do away with the close season altogether. But the French Commissioners with whom they came in conference, in negotiating the new Convention, though of the same opinion themselves, represented that the French fishermen were not yet prepared for so great a change; and upon this representation the Commissioners agreed not to recommend the abolition of the close season, but that it should be shortened from four months to two and a half months. It was also agreed that the limits within which the close season should be enforced should be very nearly the same as those under the old Convention of 1844, that is to say, the English Channel only, and not the East Coast, or the Irish Channel, or the Irish Coast. The line was drawn from the North Foreland to Dunkirk, and from Land's End to Ushant. It was not therefore because they believed in the advantage of a close season that this limit had been agreed upon; in fact the close season was to be confined to as narrow limits as possible. He apprehended that the same policy which the Commissioners thought best for the East Coast of England was also best for Ireland. It could not therefore be said that they had neglected Ireland. But as there was a difference of opinion on this important subject among the Irish Fishery Commissioners, as there was a certain advantage in trying two opposite systems, it
 1868
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that the views of the Irish people had not been adequately represented by the Commissioners. The most valuable part of the Irish fisheries was beyond the three-mile limit. Regard ought to be paid to the wishes of the people concerned rather than to the opinions of Professor Huxley and other theorists, who knew nothing of the matter. When the Lords gave the twenty-mile limit it was to have been expected that they would place the whole twenty miles within the jurisdiction of the Irish Commissioners, instead of leaving seventeen miles subject to Her Majesty in Council. Could there be anything more absurd than having two rules with regard to close time within the twenty miles? The three-mile limit was a modern invention assumed by lawyers; but the Government had over and over again exercised jurisdiction to the extent of the wider limit; and it did not follow because there were fisheries within it that they were to be open to the whole world.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he must remind the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) that some of the highest authorities on the subject—such as Mr. Barry, the Irish Commissioner, who understood the oyster question before the hon. Gentleman was born, Mr. Burchell, author of the able and valuable work,  The Harvest of the Sea, 1869
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, it was shown in 1856 that the Irish fishermen did not observe close time. But the question really before the House was this, whether Her Majesty should or should not be ousted of her authority over the Irish seas; and whether the Lord Lieutenant should for the first time in history be endowed with an authority extending beyond Ireland? That would be the practical result of the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman opposite. It should be remembered that the Bill only proposed that by-laws enacted by the Irish Fishery Commissioners should be subject to the sanction of the Queen in Council. There could be no conflict between the authorities, for it was provided that the close time should be the same both within and without the three miles limit, within the lines laid down in the clause already adopted by the House, and the by-laws, when sanctioned by the House, would be enforced within the whole area by the Irish Commissioners.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that if anything, £20 was too much, as under the Act 5 & 6  Vict. 1870
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, he wished to offer some general remarks on the measure, having been prevented from doing so at an earlier stage. There was a general agreement that some change should be made in the constitution of the Council, and he offered no objection to the second reading. The principal clause in the Bill was to alter the tenure of the Council from a tenure for life to one for twelve years. That was a great improvement; but it was the only change of importance proposed by the Secretary of State to be made in a Bill passed ten years ago for the better government of India. The right hon. Gentleman assumed that no other change was necessary, and that, with the exception of the tenure of office the constitution of the Council was just what it ought to be. To that proposition he would not assent. He thought that several changes might be made in the constitution of the Council, especially in regard to the power possessed by the Council of overruling the Secretary of State upon matters affecting the expenditure of the Indian revenues. That was a very unfortunate defect, because it placed the centre of power and real authority regarding the government of India in the hands of the Council. It was wrong in principle, and it was opposed to the opinion of those whose opinion was best worth having, among others of Lord Macaulay, who was not only well acquainted with the details of Indian administration, but had also had the advantage of having spent several years in that country; and who said in 1853—
 "India is, and must be governed in India. That is a law we did not make, which we cannot alter, and to which we should do our best to conform our legislation." 1871 "We all know that this Council was constituted at a time of considerable difficulty, and that it was the result of Parliamentary compromise. Therefore, we cannot expect that it will work as well as a scheme matured under better auspices." "You cannot always expect, if you choose to place extravagant powers in a particular body, that those powers will not be sometimes misused."—[3  Hansard, 1872 1873 "I think, therefore, the protection of a Council which has power to limit the expenditure is desirable, and should be sustained; but the point to which I take exception is that the responsibility for that expenditure is not thrown on the Council.… Remember that the Council have every item of expenditure, large and small, under their control, and every act of the Government which can involve expenditure—that is to say, the vast majority of its acts. But you never blame the Council if the Government of India goes wrong. You blame the Secretary of State; he is the figure that stands before Parliament. … What I wish to do is to impress upon the House that you hold the Secretary of State responsible for a policy in India and what it produces; but you never know whether he carries out his own policy, or a policy imposed upon him, either by the absolute votes of his Council or by a clear indication of their will."—[3  Hansard, 1874 "We have heard over and over again that India never could command attention here, however great the magnitude of the subject. The explanation is simple, if humiliating: Englishmen have never yet had to pay for India. That is the reason why India never has produced any interest in this country." 1875 1876
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he agreed with the noble Lord that it was most important that India should be governed in India, and that there was a great tendency in the change of circumstances which had rendered communication with India so much easier to lead to over-interference on the part of the Home Government. But, after all, they could not altogether abdicate their control, though the best way in which that control could be exercised would be to send out men to represent us who could be relied upon to perform their duty well. Since there must be a controlling power here, the question was between placing it in the Secretary of State alone or in the Secretary of State and the Council. On that point he did not think the noble Lord had said anything which tended to show that it was better to place that control in the Secretary of State alone rather than in the Secretary of State and a Council which had an effective power. The noble Lord had admitted the absolute necessity of the Secretary of State being assisted by persons who had acquired a knowledge of India. About that there could be no difference of opinion between the noble Lord and himself. But if the Council did not possess some substantive power, if they were made a consultative body only, they never would have that degree of weight which they ought to possess; they would be a mere superfluous wheel in the machinery. If they had only the power of giving their opinions they would never be so powerful with the Secretary of State as his own subordinates in Office. If the House did not think that the Council as at present constituted was the best controlling body, they could try to improve it; and various modes of doing so had been suggested, some of which he thought were improvements. Perhaps it would be an improvement if a portion of them were allowed to sit in that House. He confessed he was surprised, however, when the noble Lord said that if the present powers of the Council were continued he would be against its Members being admitted to seats in that House; but if their powers were taken away then he thought it would be of advantage that they should have seats. Now, such an expression of opinion appeared to
 1877
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that nothing had surprised him more than the assertion of his noble Friend (Lord William Hay) that the Government was impeded by the power of the Council of India. Why, the Council were the mere agents of the Secretary of State, with the exception of the control of the finances of India, which his noble Friend would do away with. The power
 1878
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  said, he regretted that means had not been taken to furnish the House with reliable and authentic information with respect to the working of the Council of India. There was a vast number of points on which such information was needed before Parliament proceeded to legislate further in the proposed direction for that country. The very question involved in the financial power of the Council, for instance, was one which it was very important should receive elucidation. How had that power operated? Had the Council assisted or impeded the Secretary of State with reference to financial operations? How often had they exercised anything like a veto on financial measures? Did the Secretary of State over-rule their decisions in matters not connected with finance? So far as he had an opportunity of obtaining information, his opinion was that the Council were in reality a very great assistance to the Minister for India; that they were, in a word, an auxiliary, and not an obstructive body. But the subject was one on which adequate knowledge could be secured only
 1879
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE,  in reply, said, that after what bad fallen from one or two hon. Members whose opinions on Indian matters deserved the greatest consideration, he felt it to be his duty to make a few observations on the subject. The hon. Member who had just spoken seemed to think it very desirable that the present measure should be preceded by some kind of inquiry before a Select Committee. Undoubtedly in former times it was the practice to institute an inquiry into the mode in which the East India Company used to conduct the affairs of that country, and the terms on which their charter should be renewed at the expiration of the several periods for which it had been granted, and some might think that that formed a precedent for inquiry in the present case. The old and the new systems of government for India were not, however, exactly parallel. Under the former, Parliament delegated to a body extrinsic to itself and peculiarly constituted—for it was originally nothing more than a private company—certain functions of an Imperial character. It was therefore only reasonable and proper that Parliament should from time to time review the proceedings of that body. But the present Government of India was in the main neither more nor less than one of the branches of the Executive, and under those circumstances he did not think there was any standing occasion  primâ facie 1880 1881 1882 1883 1884 de novo, 1885
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was of opinion that it would have been right to have referred the Bill under consideration to a Select Committee in the first instance; and he believed that great evil was being done in consequence of the restraint exercised upon the Governor General by persons who could not know so well as he the circumstances arising in India.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped some modification would be made in this clause, which was open to great objection. The clause, while it enacted that new Members of the Council, after holding office for twelve years, should not be re-eligible, said nothing about the existing members of Council, who held office during good behaviour, so that, if new Councillors should be appointed under the present clause, there would exist a Council consisting of two classes of members, and the appointment of one class would condemn the existence of the other class, for both systems could not be admitted to be right. In the Act constituting the existing Council a proviso was introduced declaring that if Parliament should think fit to reduce the number of the Councillors, or alter the terms and conditions on which they held office, no Member of the Council who had not served ten years should be entitled to claim compensation. Therefore, Parliament then concluded that it would be a proper time at the end of ten years to reconsider the mode in which the Council should be appointed, and if a change should he made in the terms and conditions of appointments to the Council for the future, the Committee was bound to apply the new: conditions to the members of the Council now existing, so that they might also be on the same footing. For what purpose was the Council formed? The Council was desirable to supply a link of connection between the Secretary of State and those
 1886 1887 "To leave out all after 'Council,' and insert 'shall continue in office until he shall retire in manner following, unless he shall by any other means previously cease to hold such office; the two members of the Council, one having been elected and the other appointed, who have been longest in office, shall retire on the first day of January in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine, and in every subsequent year, but any such member may be again elected or appointed a member of the said Council; and when two or more members shall have been elected or appointed on the same day, the Secretary of State shall determine the order of retirement of such as were appointed, and the said Council shall determine the order of retirement of such as were elected."
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had an Amendment on the Paper limiting the term of service to five years; but he was willing to accept the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). The term of twelve years was decidedly too high. If a man of forty-
 1888
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, the speech of the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down would lead the Committee to suppose that his Amendment was identical with that of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) with the exception that the former proposed that the duration of Office should be five years, while the latter thought it should be seven years; but, as far as he understood them, the two propositions were totally distinct. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets proposed that the present members of the Council should be removed, two every year, from the 1st of next January, whereas the hon. and gallant Member proposed that the existing members should hold Office for a further period of five years from that date. Then, with respect to the question of pensions, he was in doubt as to the effect of the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. The members of the Council had now a reasonable right to a pension on retiring. [Mr. AYRTON: No!] He understood that the present members of the Council could not be displaced after ten years' service without being pensioned.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the way the matter stood was this—In the Act there was a proviso that, in the event of Parliament making any change within ten years, none of the members of the Council were to be entitled to a pension.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, it was only a fair expectation of the present
 1889
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he was glad that the principle of a limited term of service—for which he contended in 1858—was now recognized not only by Members of the House but by Her Majesty's Government. Most of the Members of the Committee were, however, agreed that the term of service proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State was too long. He thought, at all events, the term should be reduced from twelve years to ten. According to the proposal before the Committee, the members of the Council were to be nominated by the Council or by the Secretary of State; but he thought it was unadvisable that the members should feel that their re-election depended upon the good-will of their colleagues or the judgement or caprice of the Secretary of State. Balancing the advantages and disadvantages of the two terms proposed, he felt bound to support the proposal of the Government; but he should be happy to support so much of the Amendment moved by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) as did not refer to the re-eligibility of the retiring Councillors.
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  approved the principle of infusing fresh blood into the Council. It did however appear to him close practice that when there remained only about two months to the time when the Councillors originally appointed were entitled to claim their pensions this right should be altogether done away with. [Mr. AYRTON: That is not proposed.] As he understood the Amendment it would certainly have the effect of abrogating the right which the present Councillors would have to a pension at the expiration of ten years' service, that period having very nearly expired. He could not help regarding that as hard. He might remind the Committee that though absence from India might be a disqualification for Members of the Council, age could not be regarded as such, their functions being purely consultative. Concurring as he did in the principle that an infusion of fresh blood
 1890
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it was perfectly clear that Parliament might alter the constitution of the Council, or, indeed, abolish it altogether, without the members being entitled to any legal claim for compensation, a provision to that effect having been inserted in the Act of 1858. Inasmuch, however, as two or three members who might retire by reason of infirmity next year would be entitled—morally, at all events—to a pension, he agreed in the opinion that it would be rather sharp practice now to deprive them of that right. Those members had performed their duties to the best of their ability, and it would be hard that they should be deprived of an advantage to which they might possibly have been looking forward for some years. The recognition of that principle would not interfere with the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), because the cases to which he referred would be included in the words; "unless he shall by any other means previously cease to hold such office." He doubted, however, whether the proposal made by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was the best, because the hon. Gentleman proposed that the two senior members should retire every year, independently of those who resigned from other causes. As there would constantly be some member or members retiring in this way, it was extremely uncertain whether any member of the Council would be able to serve the full period, whatever the period they might fix upon might be, inasmuch as through the vacancies so caused, he would be called upon to retire before his allotted period of service had expired. Some of the present members would probably retire in a few years, and probably the average number of years' service would not amount to seven—it might be five, or even four. He thought that they should give a salary, and not a pension, and that a gentleman ought to know how many years he was likely to serve. The objections which had been urged against the re-election of the members of Council were certainly strong ones, and it was therefore proposed that there should be no re-election. Although he had placed the term of service at twelve years, he thought it might be reduced to ten, but not to a less term, because length of service undoubtedly in-
 1891
 MR. AYRTON  asked whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed the present members should hold Office for life?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he did not think any object would be gained by altering the position of the present members of the Council, because retirements would be tolerably frequent, and because the Councillors had been appointed on the presumption that they would act as long as they were able.
 COLONEL SYKES  asked whether the old arrangement by which the directors of the India Company elected seven members of the Council and the Government nominated eight, would continue?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said it would.
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, he would be willing to pension the present members of the Council, no matter what it cost, because he was sure the expenditure would be a cheap bargain in the interests of India. They would have a thoroughly efficient Council by getting rid of those who, in his opinion, were no longer fit for their work.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he was in favour of putting new blood in the Council, and suggested the expediency of occasionally appointing others than Indians, on the ground that such Councillors would look at questions from an English, and not exclusively from an Indian point of view. He thought ten years too long a term.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as the Secre-
 1892
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought the division which had just taken place might practically be accepted as an adoption of the principle of the clause recommended by the Government. He had no objection, however, to substitute the term of ten years for that of twelve, believing that this change would be acceptable to the majority of the Committee; and he should also be willing to accept the suggestion of the hon. Member for Taunton (Lord William Hay), that members, provided they had served or resided two years in India, should be eligible for reelection. If these Amendments were agreed to the clause might be adopted at once, and Progress could then be reported, as he understood the House was anxious to pass to other Business.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House Copy of the Correspondence
 1856
 MR. ESMONDE  said, all the friends of Reform must look upon this Bill as in no way a settlement of the question. He should feel guilty of a dereliction of duty both to himself and to his constituents, if he were to omit entering his protest against it. It must be perfectly understood that they would re-open the question on the very earliest opportunity. As regarded both the county franchise and the freemen's franchise, they would consider no settlement satisfactory, no matter what Government might be in Office, which did not deal with both these subjects.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, What is the present state of the Mauritius, in reference to the disease which has been prevalent there?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he thought there was much force in the argument of his hon. Friend. The circumstances of Dublin were very peculiar, and of late years a large proportion of the most respectable citizens had lived outside the town. The seven mile limit at present excluded a number of persons from the enjoyment of the franchise, and, considering the concessions agreed to with regard to London and that the class who would benefit by this provision were much the same as in that case, he thought the clause was a reasonable one.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I should like to have a few words of explanation from the noble Earl as to the application of this principle to the cases of other large cities and towns, before we assent to the Motion made by the hon. Member for Armagh
 1900
 MR. VERNER  said, he was surprised at the view taken by the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Sir John Gray) who himself had a villa residence outside Dublin, while his place of business was in the city. He thought there were good grounds for extending the limit of residence to twelve miles. He knew that many persons engaged during the day in business in Dublin resided at Bray.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he was surprised that the Government should support this clause. He had understood that it was agreed on all sides to accept the Bill in the condition in which it left the Committee. If this understanding were not adhered to there would be an opening up of many clauses besides this in the Bill.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, that the Amendment would favour an increase in the number of freemen voters, and this explained the proposal.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, he should oppose the clause on the ground that this franchise had been left where it was in 1832, both with regard to England and Ireland; and as it had not been extended by the late Reform Act in England, it ought not to be extended in Ireland. Such an attempt as that made by the hon. Baronet would have a very had effect in Ireland; for it would furnish with a new argument that increasing class of persons who maintained that it was useless to look for justice to Parliament, when it was seen that the Government had taken good care not to suffer the power of the landlords to be threatened in the counties, and now endeavoured to give them new influence in the towns. He begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, this clause has been supported on two grounds. The hon. Member for Armagh supported it on a ground worthy of the attention of the House and the country—namely, that the propositions of the Government with regard to the borough franchise are of so dangerous a character that they require to be counteracted and neutralized, and he thinks he finds in this proposition of the hon. Baronet the remedy he wants. I confess I think it would have been much better if the hon. Gentleman had exposed this dangerous character of the propositions of the Government when they were made, and had not supported them in silence. But, whether he is happy or not in the choice of his opportunity, I wish to protest against the principle that we are to counteract by restrictive propositions the effects of those enlarging propositions which we have applied to the franchise. On that ground it appears to me it is totally impossible to defend the clause of the hon. Baronet, and I do not know whether the hon. Baronet will be obliged to the hon. Member for the character he has given to the clause as retroactive, and meant to restrain the effect of that exceedingly slight enlargement of the franchise which we have made by our so-called
 1907
 MR. MOFFATT , in moving that this Bill be now read a second time, said, that its object was to amend the present law of bankruptcy, It dealt exclusively with deeds of arrangement.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he should offer no opposition to the second reading of the Bill, some portions of which would effect an improvement in the present law.
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he wished to make one or two remarks, and, to place himself in Order, he would, if necessary, move the Adjournment of the House. When the Petition was placed in the hands of the hon. Member for Bute some information was handed to him by the Secretary of the Eyre Defence Fund referring to figures which he might have to make use of in his speech. As soon as the Secretary saw the exaggerated statement in question he went to the hon. Member for Bute and told him of the mistake that had been made. None of the members of the Defence Fund Committee were responsible for the mistaken statement that had gone forth to the public.
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What steps he means to take with regard to the Memorial that has been addressed to him by the Vicar and other Inhabitants of Barking relative to the state of the River Thames in that neighbourhood?
 MR. BATHURST  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why a fixed standard of height is required for London Letter Carriers?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, it was true that no new half-crowns had been coined for fifteen years, but the present supply was adequate to the demand. Half-crown pieces formed about 30 per cent of the silver coinage, and there was no present intention of withdrawing them from circulation.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had been quite ignorant of this "party struggle" until the subject was introduced by his hon. Friend the Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance). Much might be said both for and against the Amendment. No doubt the precedent established last year in regard to the City of London, and which—although explained by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire—was one of very doubtful import, quite justified his hon. Friend in bringing forward this proposal. If his hon. Friend had, however, consulted him he should have said that upon the whole, and in the present state of the Irish Reform Bill, it would not be expedient to open this question. This would show what exaggerated statements had just been made, and how completely unfounded was the conclusion to which the hon. Member for Galway County (Mr. Gregory) had arrived when he hinted that this was some deep and sinister party move. He would say that, although his hon. Friend was quite justified in making this proposal, which was not only plausible, but very reasonable, and which was supported by both the Members for Dublin, still it was not expedient to press the Amendment to a division.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did not see any Notice of the Question on the Paper.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he found it quite impossible at present to fix any day; other Business was so pressing. If he could find an opportunity for the hon. Gentleman he would; and when the time came he would state the course which Government intended to take in regard to it.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he rose only to protest against the imaginary compact which the hon. Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) had announced as having been come to on Thursday night. He understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to think that there had been an agreement on both sides that no new matter was to be introduced into the Irish Reform Bill, that the Committee was virtually closed, and that they were only to touch some points of detail which, for particular reasons, could not be dealt with conclusively on Thursday night. [Sir COLMAN O'LOGHLEN: Hear, hear!] He was glad that the hon. and learned Baronet acknowledged the justice of that statement of what he had said. But his (Mr. Disraeli's) impression was totally different. He thought that it was agreed on Thursday night that Progress should be reported, in order that the House on Report might have an opportunity of deciding upon many very important questions, and particularly upon the question of election by ballot, which was to have been brought forward by the hon. Member for Leitrim (Mr. Brady). But there were other questions also of great importance, of which due Notice had been given, and that Notice
 1905
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that a despatch had been received dated the 13th May, which stated that the mortality had in the previous month been 2,036, whilst in April, 1867, the mortality was 10,867,
 1857
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had voted so often before for the maintenance of the distinction between borough and county franchise in England that he could not now support the clause of the hon. Baronet.
 MR. REARDEN  said, he rose to propose a clause, altering the qualification to one of the net annual rental value of £6 or upwards for counties, and £3 or upwards for boroughs, of lands, tenements, or hereditaments. He thought that after Irish Members had assisted in passing Reform Bills of a character so liberal for England and Scotland, they were entitled to a better return. The present Bill would make an addition of only 9,000 voters in a population of nearly 6,000,000. Were a measure so restricted proposed for England, it would be burned at the market cross of every town throughout the country. But if the House would accept the clause he now
 1899
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was greatly disappointed when he heard that the right hon. Gentleman intended to support this clause. Whatever arguments might have induced the right hon. Gentleman to do so he was sure there was one to which he would lend no countenance—namely, the argument brought forward by the hon. Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance). That hon. Gentleman had said that they had reduced the borough franchise to so dangerous a level that this clause was intended to act as a counterpoise. Well, as the House had adopted the borough franchise for Ireland proposed by the Government themselves, Her Majesty's Ministers at least would give no countenance to such an argument. But what was the House really asked to do? They were asked to do in the case of Ireland what the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had reminded them they had repeatedly refused to do in the case of England. If there was one objection more deeply felt and more strongly urged than another to the proposals of the Government in 1859, it was that county voters should be removed from the counties of England, and transferred with the same franchise to the boroughs. They had rejected that proposal for England; they ought now to reject it for Ireland, for if bad for England it was far worse for Ireland, where there was not so large an infusion of the commercial element in the county constituency. The creation of rent-charge votes in small constituencies was very objection-able. If they agreed to this clause they
 1906
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he would beg to ask the First Minister of the Crown the Question he had given notice of for Friday last, Whether he will give him an early opportunity of moving the Second Reading of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, and whether he will state the course which the Government intend to take in regard to it?
 MR. MACEVOY : It was on the Paper on Friday.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he received on Saturday last a communication from the Thames Conservators on the subject referred to in the noble Lord's Question, stating that they had not completed their investigation; and he did not wish to take any further steps until the inquiry was complete.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, he found that in April 1866, while the right hon. Member for Morpeth (Sir George Grey) was at the Home Office, the relaxation of the rule in regard to that matter was first made. Mr. Holmes was allowed to take private practice on condition that the salary, which had been £800, was reduced to £500, and that he should at all times be available for police duty. Mr. Holmes undertook so to be, and there was no complaint of his not having attended to that duty.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that great inconvenience to the public service arose some years ago from the want of some standard of physical strength in the minor Departments of the Post Office. The standard of height had been altered from time to time; and he knew of no reason why the present standard should be maintained, except that an ample supply of candidates for the service could be obtained at that standard.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Recommendations of the Neutrality Commission have received the attention and approval of the Government; and, if so, whether a Measure will be introduced for the purpose of giving effect to them?
 MR. GRENFELL  said, he did not wish to trespass on the Rules of the House, and if it were necessary he would move the Adjournment. He was a member of the Jamaica Committee, and he had taken it upon himself to ask the hon. Member for Bute, On what grounds he stated, on Friday June 5th, that the Petition which he presented praying for an early re-appointment of Mr. Eyre to Her Majesty's Colonial Service was signed by 71 Peers, 6 Bishops,
 1851
 MR. GRENFELL  said, he wished to preface his Question on this subject by a few remarks. He was a member of the Jamaica Committee, which had been subject to the unceasing persecutions of an irresponsible body of persons signing themselves "The Eyre Defence Committee."
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Government have yet decided on an amended scheme of retirement from the non-purchase corps; and if, before taking the Vote for Retired Officers in the Army Estimates, he will lay upon the Table any Correspondence on the subject between the Departments of Government, and the actuary's calculations of the cost of the plan proposed by the Select Committee of last year?
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he only rose to correct the impression which might be derived from the statement of the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell) regarding the part taken by the Scotch Members. No less than twenty-one Scotch Members voted in favour of the Motion for reducing the Irish county franchise to £8, and only seven on the other side.
 MR. LAMONT  said, he must beg the indulgence of the House while he gave a brief explanation of the circumstances attending the exaggerated statement referred to. When that Petition was given to him for presentation to the House it was accompanied by a short statement in writing, purporting to be an analysis or summary of the Petitioners. He did what he imagined the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent or any other Member of this House would have done—he did not analyze this immense number of names himself; but be accepted the written statement as being substantially correct, and he read it to the House. He had now to express his regret that he committed himself to an unintentional exaggeration of the numbers, and he trusted that the House would believe him when he said that he stated that which he believed at the time to be strictly correct. It appeared that this exaggeration of the numbers was caused by the clerk who made up the statement supposing that he was entitled to include as Petitioners all those who had subscribed sums of money, however small, to Mr. Eyre's Defence and Aid Fund. With regard to the latter part of the hon. Member's Question, of which he had private notice, he begged to say that, considering the vast preponderance of opinion in favour of his distinguished friend among the educated and enlightened classes of the community, and especially among those who know anything about the colonies, he apprehended that there would not be the slightest difficulty before the prorogation in procuring a Supplementary Petition from the borough of Stoke-upon-Trent and the borough of
 1852
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he could not allow this Bill to pass through this its final stage without giving expression to his unqualified dissatisfaction at the manner in which it dealt with the interests of the Irish people. When the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo) introduced the Bill some months since, he stated his objections to it. He stated that it was, so far as he could judge, framed upon no principle which had been previously accepted or adopted by the House. It proposed to increase the county representation by five Members to the injury of the urban representation as it stood. It left quite untouched the great question of the county franchise, and avoided the freemen so long objected to by Irish representatives. The Bill had now passed through Committee without any important Amendment, with the exception of the abandonment by the Government of their proposal for disfranchisement and re-distribution of seats—the borough franchise had been fixed at a figure above £4, the county franchise remained at £12, and the freemen, with nil their objectionable characteristics, remain in the full possession of all the powers
 1894 1895
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he thought that a measure so small and so absurd had never before been brought before the House. In agreeing to it the Irish Liberal Members only relegated the question to a Parliament of more authority and vigour. But they certainly had hoped that a more extended county franchise would be at once adopted. He did not complain of hon. Members opposite, who had only acted in honest accordance with their principles; but he could not and would not say the same for Members on that (the Liberal) side. Irish Members had sat there night after night patiently endeavouring to make the other two Reform Bills worthy of England and of Scotland; but when they came to debate the question of their county franchise they found themselves deliberately, basely deserted by the men they had supported. What had this Reform Bill done for Ireland? Why, it had only reduced the franchise in towns from £8 to over £4. The county franchise it had left precisely as it stood before. He felt exactly as one might feel that found himself abandoned by his comrades in the face of danger. Of course, to those English and Scotch Members who had supported their Irish Friends these remarks did not apply; but whomsoever the cap fitted, he might wear it. In common with, he believed, all the Irish Liberal Members, he protested against the Bill; and if by saying "No" he could throw it out, he would willingly pronounce that word.
 MR. BRADY  said, he wished to explain that in taking the course he had taken on Thursday night, with reference to one of the two clauses which he had given notice of his intention to move in Committee on the Bill, he was acting in accordance with
 1893
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, If he will lay his intended Bill for the amendment and consolidation of the Merchant Shipping Acts upon the
 1853
 MR. SPEAKER : I think the hon. Member has now stated everything necessary to give the information he desires to convey.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member is not acting in accordance with the Rules of the House in not confining himself to such matter as is necessary for explaining the grounds on which he puts the Question.
 MR. VANCE  proposed a clause extending the residence of electors of the city of Dublin from seven to twelve miles. He remarked that, in the case of the English metropolis, the limit of residence had been extended to twenty-five miles, and as railway facilities induced many persons to live by the seaside or otherwise beyond the distance of seven miles from Dublin, he hoped a similar boon would be extended to the Irish metropolis.
 MR. VANCE  said, he had made this Motion in the interest of his former con-
 1903
 MR. VANCE  supported the clause, which sought to extend a very valuable franchise that, though existing in but a few English boroughs, already prevailed in many Irish boroughs, and would act as a counterpoise to the dangerous lowering of the borough franchise proposed by the Bill.
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to state that he had had no consultation whatever with Her Majesty's Government, and that he was entirely responsible for the Amendment.
 MR. PIM  said, he was in favour of extending the privilege granted in the case of the City of London to towns like Manchester and Liverpool, and also to Dublin. He could not see why there should be a seven-mile limit excluding gentlemen who had an interest in that city though they lived in country houses.
 MR. PIM  rose to move the adjournment of the House, but there were calls for
 MR. MURPHY  seconded the Motion for an adjournment. He said the object of the clause brought forward by the hon. Baronet was to give county voters a vote also in the boroughs, a procedure that was manifestly unjust.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, that one of the questions which agitated the public mind in Ireland was the land question, and yet when a proposition was made to enable landed proprietors to express their opinions the House refused to' entertain it. But now the hon. Member for Londonderry (Sir Frederick Heygate) came forward to introduce a landlord element into constituencies, to enable landlords to make faggot votes and swamp the constituencies, which were at present pretty evenly balanced.
 MR. COGAN  said, he hoped that the Government would reconsider the course they seemed disposed to take, and which would end in the whole question of Irish Reform being reopened.
 MR. GREGORY  said, that, believing that this was a clearly defined party proposal, he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he thought it was a very suspicious measure to select one place in which to make a distinction, as was now proposed with reference to the city of Dublin, without any special circumstances connected with it. It looked very like a party and political move. ["Oh."] Hon. Gentlemen seemed to flinch from the imputation, and he did not wonder at it. He challenged any hon. Member to answer the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), and to explain why this proposal should be adopted in Dublin and not adopted in the large towns of England.
 MR. STACPOOLE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true, as alleged in  The Pall Mall Gazette
 SIR ARTHUR GUINNESS  said, that as a challenge had been thrown out for hon. Members on his side of the House to deny if they could that this Amendment had been made from party motives, he wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman
 1902
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he thought English Members had no just ground for complaining that too much of the time of the House had been occupied by this measure. He did not complain of the
 1896 The Spirit of Whiggism, 1897 "The disposition of property in England throws the power of the country into the hands of the natural aristocracy. I do not believe that any system of suffrage or any method of election-would direct that power into other quarters. It is the necessary consequence of our present social state. I believe that the wider the popular suffrage the more powerful would be the natural aristocracy. That seems to be the inevitable consequence; but I maintain this proposition on the clear under standing that such an extension should be founded on a fair and not on a factious basis. Here then arises the question of the ballot, into the merits of which I shall take another opportunity of entering, recording merely my opinion that in the present state of the Constitution even the ballot is in favour of the power of the natural aristocracy, and that if the ballot were to be contemporaneously introduced, with a fair and not a factious extension of suffrage, it would produce no change in the distribution of power affecting the natural aristocracy."
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to issue a Royal Commission to inquire into the Tenure and Occupation of Land in Ireland; and, if so, when will the Commission be issued?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he hoped that the clause would meet the same fate as the last, and that the First Lord of the Treasury would recommend the hon. Mover to withdraw it. The franchise which it proposed to extend was properly a county franchise, and he objected on principle to its introduction into the Irish boroughs generally. At present, it was
 1904
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  who said, he was not convinced by the argu-
 1908
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is the fact that no half-crown pieces have been coined for some years past at the Mint, and if it is the intention to allow that useful coin
 1850
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he rose, according to Notice, to move the following clause:—
 (Assimilation of franchise in boroughs, counties of cities, and counties of towns.) "Every man shall be entitled to be registered as a voter, and when registered to vote at the Election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for any borough who is of full age and not subject to any legal incapacity, and who is seised of a freehold estate in such borough, or of any rent-charge arising out of any freehold estate in such borough of such value and subject to such conditions as would if in a city or town, being a county of a city or county of a town by itself, entitle such person to register his vote for such city or town, or who holds as lessee or assignee any lands or tenements in such borough for such term visions of the Registration Acts shall apply to of such value and subject to such provisions as would if such lands or tenements were situate in a city or town, being a county of a city or county of a town by itself, entitle such person to register his vote for such city or town; and all the pro-voters in boroughs on whom the franchise is hereby conferred in the same manner in all respects as far as is practicable as they now apply to such voters in cities and towns."
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he is aware that a paragraph in  The Times "Determined to request the Russian Government to appoint an International Commission to consider the possibility of arresting the Cattle Plague in its place of origin—the Steppes of Russia;"
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he had been a resident of Dublin for thirty years and upwards, and did not know that any large number of electors having their business in the city resided at any outside place. With the exception of Kingstown, which was within the seven-mile limit, there was no considerable place where persons went for sea residence. Bray was a small though growing town outside the limits of the county of Dublin, and nearly twelve miles from the city. The persons who would be brought in by the clause were not occasional residents, but occupants of villas, who lived outside of Dublin for the purpose of escaping the urban taxation, and did not contribute in any way to the
 1901
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he wished to point out how unjustly the provisions of the present Bill would operate. They had given to England a rating franchise for the boroughs, whereas in Ireland they restricted it to houses of £4 rental. In England the county franchise was fixed at
 1898
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that it was quite true that Captain Brooke was under "open" arrest for nearly a month; but the course pursued with respect to him was quite in accordance with the 18th Article of War.
 Sir JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he did not think it would conduce to the convenience of the Service to lay Correspondence of that nature before the House, and he, therefore, must decline to produce it. As he believed that the hon. and gallant Officer asked the Question from a regard to the character of Colonel Peel, he had great pleasure in stating that there was nothing in all these transactions at all impugning the honourable character of Colonel Peel.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, Captain Brooke had been placed under arrest for a month and reprimanded, but at the end of that time he returned to his duty.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he was not able to say that the Government had yet come to a decision on the subject, which was one that must be very carefully considered. They had a plan before them, and the Report of an actuary, and information received from other quarters; and if he could devise a plan that would receive the sanction of the Government, he would lay it on the table in the course of the Session, in order to act on it hereafter. It was more desirable that the plan should be prepared with due caution that that it should be prepared quickly. The subject was not a pressing one, and there was no immediate hurry. The really important object was to have the plan prepared with the greatest care. There was no Correspondence, and he was sure the hon. Member would not ask him to produce any Official Minutes. He had no objection to give him the Report of the actuary, if he would move for it.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that, when it became evident that there was no chance of passing this Bill during the present Session, the draughtsman was directed to employ himself on work of greater emergency; and therefore the consolidation of the Merchant Shipping Acts was not proceeded with with as much rapidity as before. He hoped, however, to lay the Bill on the table before the end of the Session, and to distribute it to Members sufficiently early for those who were interested in the question to express an opinion upon it in ample time before the meeting of the next Parliament.
 MR. GROVE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the official restrictions imposed for so many years on the late Surgeon in Chief of the Metropolitan Police Force, and announced as a necessity to the candidate, on his retirement, have been entirely relaxed, notwithstanding that the strength of the Police Force has so materially increased; and, whether the present Chief Surgeon is required to visit the sick of the different divisions, and perform the other duties of his office in the same manner as his predecessor, who was prohibited from engaging in private practice?
 MR. POWELL  said, the Select Committee on the Bill had not thought it desirable to continue the powers of the governing bodies for a long period, notwithstanding the arguments pressed on them by the hon. Gentleman. It was thought desirable that the period of suspense should be as short as possible. The only function of the existing bodies would be that of suggesting who should be their successors; and as there was power of prolonging their existence for another three months, he contended that nine months would allow them ample time to prepare a scheme. Some of them, indeed, were already engaged in the task. He hoped the House would sustain the decision of the Select Committee upstairs, so as to enable the schools to have at the earliest possible period a permanent governing body, which would carry out the reforms so much needed.
 MR. KARSLAKE  supported the Amendment, thinking that his hon. Friend (Mr.
 1925
 MR. NEATE  said, that the mistake which was made throughout the Bill was in confounding the governing body of these schools, who knew little or nothing about them, with the Master and Fellows of the Colleges of the University, who really were the governing bodies of the Colleges. The recommendations of the Select Committee were unanimously made, and he hoped the Committee would reject the Amendment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  protested against the hon. Member's assertion that the governing body of Rugby, of which he was a member, knew little about the School. The evidence taken before the House of Lords would show that this was a total, entire, and gross mistake. The governing bodies resided within a limited distance of the School, and met four or five times to consult about its affairs. But the object clearly was to get rid of their interference altogether.
 MR. NEATE  complained of the words "grossmis-statement" as un-Parliamentary. The evidence in regard to Rugby was that the regulations of the School were in practice delegated to the Head master; that the interposition of the governing body was unusual, and the present Head master said he could call to mind no instance of such interposition within his experience.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the word he used was "mistake," He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that the functions of the governing body of Rugby were no sinecure.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that the "governing body" of Eton had been the Provost, and he, in his desire to extend and improve the School, had obtained large dispensing-powers from the visitor in regard to the interpretation of the statutes. The bursar was strongly in favour of running out the leases, and he therefore claimed for the governing body of Eton the desire of improving and extending the benefits of that School. He had much greater confidence in the present governing body than in the body of Commissioners proposed by the Bill. He would certainly support his hon. Friend's (Mr. Newdegate's) most reasonable and sensible proposition to give at least a little time to those governing bodies to look round them, undisturbed by those external influences which had been referred to, before that alteration of the statutes
 1926
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  described the legislation which had taken place in respect to our Universities and schools as hap-hazard. He thought that there was really only a nominal distinction between the present governing bodies and those which it was proposed to substitute for them. Another anomaly in regard to that Bill was that it was treated as a Government Bill, although, if any Government was really responsible for it, it was not the present, but the late Government. It was a mistake to deal in that way with a measure of that kind, which ought to be left to the free judgment of the House.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that alteration was, in point of fact, an attempt to renew the discussion which had already taken place on the Motion of his hon. Friend on another clause; and, if successful, would leave everything in a state of uncertainty.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought that many Members who voted in the last division were not aware of the effect of the votes they gave, and therefore he wished to know whether, under the words introduced into the 5th clause, power would be preserved to the existing governing body to make recommendations with respect to boys on the foundation, for the 1st section of the present clause appeared to give that power only to the new governing body?
 MR. WALPOLE  explained that the existing governing bodies were empowered to make statutes for the constitution of the new governing bodies, and the power was conferred on the new governing bodies, and on them alone, to make the statutes for the future regulation of the schools.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was most anxious to have the matter properly cleared up; because he was at a loss to understand what the governing bodies of Rugby and Harrow had done that an Act should be passed incapacitating them even to recommend statutes with respect to the future constitution of the schools.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he confessed he did not exactly understand this very complicated Bill. He wished to know whether the statutes referred to in Clause 6 were to be permanent or distinguishable from the other statutes and regulations to be passed at the end of next year.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the clause embodied that class of statutes which were likely to be permanent for the regulation of the schools.
 MR. BENTINCK,  being responsible for the proposal made before the Committee with reference to the education of the choristers, was bound to say, in reply to the observations of his hon. Friend (Mr. J. Lowther), that the Committee had been unanimous on the subject, which his hon. Friend would find by referring to the Report of their proceedings. His hon. Friend did not seem to have informed himself as
 1928
 MR. J. STUART MILL  earnestly hoped that the Committee would not adopt the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for York. One of the most scandalous abuses connected with endowed schools was that the endowments intended for the education of children of parents who could not afford to pay for their education, had been in fact confiscated for the benefit of those who could afford to pay for it. Whether this was a case of the kind he did not know; but it appeared that the choristers and the sons of the tenants of the Dean and Chapter had some rights by virtue of the old endowment. The clause did not define their rights, or state whether such rights existed; it merely gave the governing body the power to consider whether such rights existed, and to take measures with respect to them. The subject had attracted the attention of the working classes themselves. To his own knowledge there had been formed in the North of England an association of the working classes to obtain a restoration of their rights—he would not say in Westminster School particularly—but in endowed schools generally. Unless means were taken to deal with this question by a measure of wider extent, the feeling amongst the working classes would grow
 1929
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  opposed the Amendment. The clause was merely permissive, and put it in the power of the governing authorities to make the best provision they could for these boys. When the matter was brought before the Public Schools Commission they were of opinion that it was not desirable to attempt to force these boys into the School but that some other provision should be made for them, by apprenticing them, or otherwise providing for them at the expense of the funds of the School. He hoped that the clause would be retained in the Bill.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  hoped that the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther) would not persist in pressing his Amendment.
 MR. MARSH  observed that the foundations at Westminster had always been open to competitive examination, and therefore could not be regarded as the exclusive right of any particular class.
 MR. J. LOWTHER,  in reply to the observation of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Stafford Northcote) that the clause was permissive, stated that it was for that reason that he objected to it. The words of the clause were vague and unmeaning, and might contain a great deal more than appeared on the face of them. The proposition, if carried, would re open a controversy that had lasted for many years, and would leave to the new governing body a  damnosa hœreditas.
 MR. ACLAND  concurred in the proposal for separating the seven schools mentioned in the Bill from the question of the general grammar schools of the country; but, at the same time, he entreated the Committee not to place the inhabitants of Westminster, Eton, and Winchester in a worse position for the sake of the higher education which it was desirable should be maintained in these schools. The House would not be acting justly towards the
 1930
 MR. LOCKE  begged to read the following extract from one of the statutes:—
 "The choristers shall go to our school that they may gain a, proficiency in grammar, and remain there for at least two hours and be taught by the master."
 MR. ACLAND  repeated his suggestion with regard to the propriety of making provision for the establishment of third-rate schools.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought it was rather inconvenient in the middle of the discussion on this clause to raise such a question. If any proposition of the kind were made he was sure the Committee would consider it.
 MR. KARSLAKE  suggested that by referring to part of Clause 7, the hon. Gentleman would get an answer to his question.
 MR. WALPOLE  explained that he had himself prepared an Amendment in reference to the same point; but confessed, if it were at all necessary—which he doubted—that he would prefer his hon. und learned Friend's provision to the one he had prepared himself. The matter was complicated, and he should like to
 1931
 MR. WHITBREAD  protested that nothing had been said with reference to the poor foundations. He was sure that when these schools were placed under the new governing bodies, large bodies of boarders and foundationers could not exist together, but the rich boarders would gradually eat up the foundationers. He hoped care would be taken to prevent such an evil.
 MR. NEATE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. AYRTON  was about to address the Committee, when
 THE CHAIRMAN  reminded the hon. and learned Member that the Amendment had been withdrawn.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that to put himself in Order he would re-move the clause, for the reason that he doubted whether the clause that had been put on the Paper by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) would cover the whole ground covered by the clause proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate). The clause contemplated the continuance of the objectionable governing bodies of Eton and Winchester, whereas the proper manner of dealing with the subject would have been to consider how they could have been abolished. They were Colleges only in the sense of gathering together half-a-dozen idle, useless people, who are maintained at the public expense. In conclusion the hon. and learned Member re-moved the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he hoped the Amendment would not be pressed, on the ground that it would be difficult to deal with Eton and Winchester in the manner proposed in the same Bill that had reference to schools differing from those named in the proposed clause. If the Question was postponed to the time when the Report was brought up they would have an opportunity of having the clause better considered.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he wished to impress upon the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), who had charge of the Bill, the importance of the suggestion that had
 1932 élite
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that one of the great advantages which these schools had conferred upon the people of this country had been that they had furnished opportunities to the children of those classes to obtain the benefits of this higher education; and some of the most distinguished men who had been educated at these schools had sprung from the middle classes. The regulations under the 12th clause indicated the intention of the Committee in that respect by giving facilities to other than boarders to attend the schools and participate in the education given therein.
 MR. ACLAND  said, it would be easy to accomplish what was wished. It had been shown that the conduct of a perfect school for the upper, lower, and lower-middle class would cost £300 a year, and it was not much to ask that this should be paid out of the magnificent sum of £20,000 at the disposal of the country for educational purposes.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that, so far as Winchester College was concerned, any boy could obtain admission, no matter what his social position, provided he could pass a competitive examination.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the clause would give the new governing body and the Commissioners the power to consolidate and amend statutes enforced whether by Act of Parliament, charter, or other instrument; and he wished to point out that, taken in conjunction with Clause 20, a very novel precedent would thereby be set, by which an unknown number of Acts of Parliament might be repealed by Order in Council, merely on condition that the scheme for doing so was laid before Parliament for a certain time, without the attention of Parliament being necessarily called to it. He also wished to remind the Committee that the Bill provided no compensation, for the rights of which the lower, middle, and labouring classes were about to be deprived.
 MR. NEATE  said, he entirely agreed with the Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  opposed the Amendment as being incongruous with the language and general structure of the clause.
 MR. ACLAND,  having been in the Head masters house at Harrow, bore testimony to the advantage arising from Head masters keeping boarding houses.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL SYKES  complained that the physical sciences are not more extensively taught in our public schools.
 MR. KARSLAKE  rose to move the omission of the words relating to Harrow, in accordance with which the governing body of that School would be empowered to submit to the Commissioners a scheme for appropriating a suitable part of the revenues of the foundation to the promotion of education within the parish of Harrow, in the shape, if deemed expedient, of providing for the maintenance of a separate school. The hon. and learned Gentleman contended that it was contrary
 1934
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he believed the fact to be that, as regarded Harrow, no tradesman or farmer there had sent his son to that School for thirty years. The object of the clause was not to take away the educational privileges of the lower classes, of which they at present did not take advantage, but to give them a school better suited to their station in life, and which would be better adapted to their educational wants. Under the present law, the privileges of Harrow were considerably abused. Parents who were not connected with the locality went to Harrow and located themselves there solely with the view of getting a cheap high-class education for their sons, although
 1935
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he had possessed the advantage of having been what John Lyon had termed a "foreigner" at Harrow, and he was inclined to think that the views of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Colchester and those of his right hon. Friend the Member for London were not so incompatible. On the one side was the undoubted fact that John Lyon had intended his foundation primarily for the inhabitants of Harrow itself; and, on the other, the fact that those educational advantages were abused by reason of the cause just mentioned, Harrow having, in consequence of improved communication—and specially, thanks to the London and North Western Railway—for some time past laboured under what was the misfortune in one point of view and the advantage in another of having virtually become a suburb of London. Building operations had gone on extensively at Harrow; part of the advantage being the cheaper education which John Lyon's foundation afforded to residents. To call that a gratuitous education was an exaggeration; for, although the Head master's fee was excused, the payment to the tutor continued; but it was certainly cheaper, and it was taken advantage of by many who ought to blush for shame Still there were poor gentlefolk—widows and others of very limited means—who in the exercise of the highest common sense, amounting almost to a Christian virtue, went to Harrow in order to send their children to the School. It was difficult to draw the line; and each case must be dealt with for itself. Again, there was the case of the tradespeople, who looked to Lyon's foundation as a
 1936 bonâ fides 1937
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the real question was, whether the endowments should be allowed to be kept for the wealthier classes of society, or not, and whether children of the poor should be deprived of the education intended by the founder? Then came the question, how the clause affected a large class of persons who did not wish their sons to have a high classical education; but who were nevertheless reluctant to give up any privileges they had at present? He could not understand why the operation of the clause should be confined to Harrow and Rugby. If they were to finally dispose of the funds of the founders they ought to have regard to the rights of the boys in the district. It appeared to him that the clause was intended to restrict the advantages of the schools to the wealthier classes. The proper mode of treating the clause was to make it not special, but general, so that some part, at least, of the endowments might be made available for the benefit of all classes of society living in the neighbourhood of the schools.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was anxious that Rugby should be included in the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Colchester (Mr. Karslake). The founder of Rugby, Lawrence Sheriff, in tended that all classes of persons in and around Rugby should participate in the benefits of the School, and by his will expressly provided against the separation of classes. The sons of the poor of Rugby had frequently risen to eminence in consequence of the education they had received at the School; and the inhabitants of that town joined in the prayers of the people of Harrow that their children might not be deprived of the advantages to be obtained at that School. The present system avoided the separation of classes; it encouraged the settlement in the town of
 1938
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he believed the inhabitants of these towns greatly prized the privileges they at present possessed, and thought the Committee should hesitate to curtail them.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  remarked, that if the clause were omitted the Commissioners, or the new governing body, would have ample powers, under previous clauses, to proceed in the way directed by it. The only object of the clause was to give them precise directions, instead of leaving the matter to their discretion. The Public School Commissioners recommended that, in consideration of the change of circumstances, the exclusive privileges enjoyed by the residents of Harrow and Rugby should be curtailed, and that, as some compensation, provision should be made for their benefit. Now, their recommendations had been embodied in the Bill with the intention of benefiting this class; but as it appeared that they not only were not grateful for it, but were inclined to oppose it, he thought the wisest course would be to abstain, on this as on other points, from giving precise directions, and to intrust the Commissioners and new governing bodies with wide powers. It would then be open to them to consult the inhabitants of these places, and ascertain what was the best and most acceptable scheme. A noble Lord opposite (Viscount Enfield) had suggested a lower, instead of separate school, and this raised a very important question; but he doubted whether it could be so well considered by Parliament as by the Commissioners, He would suggest, therefore, that the early part of the clause should be withdrawn or negatived, retaining the proviso at the end for the preservation of the rights of persons now living.
 MR. LABOUCHERE,  as a representative of the county in which Harrow was situate, thought the suggestion just made by the right hon. Gentleman eminently satisfactory. The clause was introduced for the benefit of the tradesmen of Harrow, but they did not like it, and said they did not want it.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he was opposed to all restrictions.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Stafford Northcote) would be eminently satisfactory to the inhabitants of Harrow.
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, that there was a decided objection on the part of the inhabitants of Harrow to the establishment of a new school. He had no objection to withdraw his Amendment in favour of the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he would be glad to hear from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) that the Commissioners would have power to establish subordinate schools.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not then give an off-hand opinion in answer to the question.
 MR. AYRTON  wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to insert any other names?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it might happen that one of the Gentlemen nominated might not like to serve; but it was not thought desirable at present to propose any additional names.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) represented the views of a great number of persons on education, and it was desirable to have the right hon. Gentleman of the Commission.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the compliment, but he would much rather be excused.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  suggested that perhaps the right hon. Gentleman did not like the Gentlemen with whom he would be associated. Perhaps if the Committee put in the names of some of the same kidney he might accept.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Member who moved the postponement of the clause (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) would not press his Motion, because the Committee would not thereby get an inch nearer. If it were thought necessary to add other names it would be
 1940
 MR. LABOUCHERE  regretted that the right hon. Member for Calne declined to serve on the Commission, because he spoke real sound common sense on the subject of education, and would put an end to that system of teaching nothing but Latin and Greek, which made such ignoramuses of them all.
 MR. KARSLAKE  suggested the name of the junior Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Beresford Hope) as an acquisition to the Commission.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  agreed that it would be desirable to postpone the clause until another day.
 MR. BROMLEY-DAVENPORT  thought they were merely wasting time by that discussion.
 MR. POWELL  supported the Commission proposed in the Bill, as being constituted in a wise and liberal spirit.
 MR. DARBY-GRIFFITH  objected to the practice of leaving measures to be carried into effect by Commissioners.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that as no Notice had been given of any Amendment in that clause, it was hardly possible to discuss the propriety of any alteration in it without having some specific proposition brought before them. He thought the body of Commissioners proposed by the Bill would meet with the general concurrence of the House and the country. If, however, the composition of the Commission as proposed was not deemed satisfactory by any hon. Gentleman, it seemed to him that any Amendment had better be brought forward after Notice. He would venture to suggest that they should pass the clause, and if anybody had any name which it was thought desirable to add to the Commission it might be properly considered on the Report.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it would place Members of that House in an invidious position if the duty of proposing names were thrown upon them. The duty properly devolved upon the right hon. Gentleman opposite of proposing names which might be deemed on the whole satisfactory. The first name contained in the clause was that of the Archbishop of York, who was chosen, he supposed, to preserve inviolable the Church of England
 1941
 MR. ACLAND  thought that no substantial objection had been urged against the composition of the Commission, and hoped the Committee would support the Government in the proposal which they made.
 MR. GLADSTONE  expressed his concurrence with the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) in the opinion that it was not desirable an individual Member of the House should take upon himself the responsibility of naming a Gentleman to be placed upon the Commission; because what they had to look at was not merely the qualities and characteristics of an individual considered alone but the manner in which he entered into the composition of the Bill as a whole. It was only the framers of the Bill who could, he thought, take the initiative in that respect with advantage. He therefore was opposed to any vague postponement of the clause, which could lead to no practical good, and which might have the effect, at this period of the Session, of preventing; the passing of a measure which, it must; be admitted, would on the whole accomplish a very great and important change. The Commission was not, so far as he could see, in any way open to the charge of having been constituted with anything like palpable unfairness; and he should, under these circumstances, give his support to the proposal of the Government. The political element seemed to be fairly balanced.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  argued in favour of the postponement of the clause in order that the composition of the Commission might be more fully discussed. He should like to know how many of
 1942
 GENERAL PEEL  said, no more important question could be introduced to the House than that brought forward in the very able speech of his noble Friend. He quite I agreed that no time could be more appropriate than the present for the consideration of the matter; because we were not suffering from one of those hot or cold fits which generally regulated our military operations—now through panic, driving the country into extravagances, and then, from a false feeling of security, leading to the neglect of the commonest measures of defence. Now was the time to consider the whole question dispassionately, because the present policy of the Foreign Office—which he hoped would be the policy of the future—to a great extent secured us immunity from foreign quarrels. But when Continental Powers were arming themselves to the teeth the security arising from non-intervention was not to be trusted in alone. The question of an Army Reserve was referred to the Royal Commission of two years ago, which sat under circumstances much resembling those of to-day, for no immediate cause for action had then arisen. The Commissioners, reporting on that subject, said—
 "We find that it opens up a very large question, the decision of which rests rather with statesmen and Cabinets than with a Commission such as that of which we are members." "The military history of this country, even up to the date of the last great war in which we were engaged, shows that it has been our practice during periods of peace to reduce all our military establishments to the lowest possible point which the relief of our troops serving in the colonies would admit. Our arsenals were dismantled, and nothing but the most ordinary work performed in them. In fact, it may be said that we were content to exist from hand to mouth with no forecast of the future. No preparations for a state of
 1955 matériel "Under these circumstances we must look more to our army. We think its present strength is barely sufficient for a period of peace, and the question is how we can most readily and speedily increase it through the means of a Reserve force, consisting of men who have already received their training in its ranks, but may have fallen back into the ordinary duties and callings of civil life?" "During peace it should be our object to keep up our cadres of regiments, battalions, and batteries, though the actual rank and file may be of diminished strength, provided we have the certainty that our organization is such that it is capable of easy and certain expansion. At present we have no such certainty; and, indeed, we may fairly say that our expansion means are  nil. 1956 "These methods would not, however, at once give anything like the number of men required by my calculation, and I therefore think that, in the first instance, at least, a strong appeal ought to be made to the Militia, calling upon every regiment to give a quota of men according to their proportionate strength, who, while continuing to serve in the Militia during peace, are ready to join the army at once in war, not alone for the purpose of home defence, but also with a view to make up the strength of regiments, battalions, and batteries serving abroad." 1957 1958
 COLONEL, WILSON PATTEN  said, it had been suggested that there was some reluctance on the part of Militia officers to allow their men to enter the Army of Reserve; but he thought that was a mistaken supposition, because there was a general feeling among those officers that it was their first duty to do all they could to induce their men to join that force. When his own regiment a few days ago was asked to join the Army of Reserve, 149 men stepped out of the ranks at once to signify their willingness to do so, and he had no doubt that a great many more were also prepared to join. The fact that 2,000 of the Militia had joined the Army of Reserve within a week showed, as he believed, that the movement, instead of being a failure, was a great success; and he thought that by the means which had been adopted a most efficient Army of Reserve would be formed.
 MAJOR JERVIS  said, that the whole of the Reserved force had been placed under the command of one general officer but unfortunately that officer found himself in this position, that the troops he had to command were also under the command of every Lord Lieutenant, of every county, in the country. It was impossible that one man should be able to command the Militia, the Yeomanry, the Volunteers, and what was more especially called the Army of Reserve, while he found himself so hampered in his command. Let them take, as an illustration, what had occurred at Windsor the other day. Some 25,000 Volunteers had to be brought to Windsor, and they were supposed to be under the control of the officer who had the command of the Reserve forces. But that officer had no more to do with them than he (Major Jervis) had. When general of fleers went down to take the command of brigades and divisions they did not know what to do, and 25,000 men had been brought together without the slightest attention being paid to the commissariat for the time being. Did they call that placing an officer in command of the re-
 1962
 COLONEL FANE  fully concurred in what had been said as to the necessity of holding out additional inducements to the officers of the Militia and Volunteers. He had the honour to command a regiment of Militia, and it went through its period of training not less creditably than other corps; but he had not one single officer whom he could rely upon to perform, such a needful operation as paying a company. Unless something were done in the, direction indicated by the Motion of the noble Lord, the day would come when the commanding officer, the major, and the adjutant would be the only persons left to represent a regiment of Militia.
 COLONEL WILLIAMS  was understood to ask whether the Militia was up to the number stated in the reduced Vote?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he regretted the absence of his hon. Friend the Member for York (Mr. Leeman). There appeared to be no Member connected with the telegraph companies on the Committee, nor any one to watch over the public interest in regard to a free system of telegraphy. He should move some additional names to-morrow.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to move the Instructions of which he had given Notice.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, it was desirable that the functions of the Committee should not be so much narrowed; but that they should investigate whether the interests of the public would be subserved by the transfer of these telegraphs entirely to the public. That was a great question, and it was not one between the telegraph companies on the one hand, who did not wish to sell, and the Government on the other, who desired to acquire the telegraphs. A much larger question than that recognized by the Instructions had to be considered—whether it was expedient that this monopoly should be given to the Executive Go-
 1979 onus probandi,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped the House would not assent to this Amendment. The first four paragraphs provided for information on the part of the public into those matters which it was thought should be inquired into. He consented on the second reading to move the 5th Instruction, which was less restrictive than it originally stood. The words of this Instruction were in the hands of the opponents of the Bill the
 1980
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the words of the 5th Instruction now proposed to be omitted were the subject of consultation, and were those in framing which the greatest care was taken. If the House were to appoint a Committee to inquire into a public question and were then to pay counsel to appear before the Committee, the whole of their legislation would soon become a matter for counsel to be heard on one side and on the other. The Members of the Select Committee were perfectly capable of dealing with the public interests without employing counsel to appear before them to get out the truth, although the latter should be heard on behalf of private interests.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Committee would have power to consider the Preamble of the Bill, and that the Amendment of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Bouverie) would not be of advantage to the parties.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as he understood the matter, the parties would be allowed to be heard against the Preamble of the Bill, using arguments with regard to their particular interests.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he concurred in what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Tower Hamlets.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, as that was a Bill for the promotion of anarchy and bloodshed in Ireland, he begged to move that that debate be adjourned till the 10th of August.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  suggested that an arrangement should be made as to the time which should be fixed for discussing the measure if it was to be proceeded with.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY  said, this Bill was on the Paper but twice before; and on one occasion, upon the suggestion of the noble Lord, it was postponed. On the last occasion it came on at one o'clock; and if, the debate having been adjourned, it came on so late as this, it was not his fault.
 COLONEL STUART KNOX  said, he was surprised at the remark of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) that troops were never required at Irish elections; because, while the right hon. Gentleman was in Office the Government of which he had been a Member sent troops to every election in Ireland, even whether they were required or not.
 THE EARL of MAYO  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) would specify any occasion on which the troops had been lightly used,
 1982
 MR. MAC EVOY  said, that as the Government had refused to give him an opportunity for the discussion of this Bill, and as he saw no reasonable chance of bringing it on at a convenient time during the present Session, he felt bound to move that the Order for its second reading be discharged.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would avail himself of the privilege of a reply which the courtesy of the House conferred to refer to one or two points alluded to in the debate. It was with a good deal of pain and surprise that he heard what occurred on Saturday night described by the hon. Member, who defended the Volunteers, as a "great disaster," and by another hon. Member as a national disgrace. "Now, it only showed, when a hare was once started, how apt men were to run riot after it. He absolutely and entirely denied that what occurred on Saturday night could be, or ought to be, so characterized. He would assume that what had been said about an "undisciplined rabble" applied
 1971 1972 vice versâ 1973
 LORD ELCHO  rose to move the following Resolution—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into and report upon our Military Organization, in so far as it relates to the establishment of a sufficient and economical Army of Reserve, and the means it offers of speedy and efficient expansion to meet the requirements of war, more especially for home defence," 1943 1944 1945 s. s. 1946 "The Prussian army rests upon system where the whole nation is accustomed to anus, and moderately disciplined, and where, in time of peace, all means are taken to instruct the staff, and keep up the departments forming the machinery of the army complete in all details; and opportunities are given to all of gaining such knowledge of their professional duties that when war comes the army and its departments can be expanded with confidence in their efficiency." 1947 "A Royal Commission to inquire into and report upon our Military Organization, in so far as it relates to the establishment of a sufficient and economical Army of Reserve, and the means it offers of a speedy and efficient expansion to meet the requirements of war, more especially for home defence." 1948 d. 1949 d. 1950 1951 "I do not think the Militia has prestige enough to attract desirable men as officers. I also think that the Army Reserve Act will increase the difficulty of getting subalterns; as it is most unpopular among the officers, who feel slighted at being required to command men liable for active service themselves, and not being allowed to accompany them. I consider that it has increased the feeling among them that they are but drill sergeants for the army. To improve the efficiency of the force I think it will be necessary to give it prestige; and, believing as I do that but few men will be induced to join the Army Reserve individually—though if asked by regiments to volunteer on the same terms to serve with their officers they would do so—I would suggest that instead of asking a percentage of men of each regiment to volunteer on these terms, the same percentage of regiments selected from those most efficient should be asked to volunteer on the same terms, to serve under their officers with the regular army in case of war; that these regiments should be very strictly inspected every year; that all members of the permanent staff not thoroughly efficient be draughted; that all officers be required to satisfy the inspecting officer of their thorough knowledge of their duties; and that their annual period of training be extended to fifty-six days, it being clearly understood that no Militia officer serving in the field has any claim to any army appointment when his regiment returns to a disembodied state. An  esprit de corps 1952 1953 "Why do you bring in the Bill at once? Why do you not, preparatory to legislating on this question, institute one of those grand inquiries which they issue in England under similar circumstances?" 1954
 MR. LIDDELL,  as a member of a country corps of Volunteers, wished to express an opinion that a lesson might be learnt from the occurrence of Saturday. That occurrence was attributable to the fault of
 1970
 MR. BATHURST  said, he objected to the period of the annual service of the Militia being extended from one month to two months. It was difficult to find men of position and means who would sacrifice even one month to hard work and it would be impossible to induce them to sacrifice two months for that purpose.
 MR. HAYTER  said, there could be no doubt that we stood in need of an efficient Army of Reserve. The recruiting, however, for the regular army had been most successful of late years, seeing that the deficiency of 5,000 in the force in 1865 had been reduced to 900 in the present year. The question of an Army of Reserve was one not of military, but of Imperial policy, and together with the question of our colonial policy, it should be con-
 1961
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the Papers to which his hon. Friend referred had only just come into his hands, and he must have time to consider whether they were of such a nature that he could lay them on the table as public documents. He thought they were exceedingly indebted to the gentlemen who had undertaken the duties of the Relief Committee, and who had shown the greatest and most philanthropic assiduity and kindness in dealing with the cases of distress which had come under their notice; and there could be no doubt that the sufferings of those who had been the victims of the explosion had been very much alleviated by the exertions of the Committee. It would be necessary to propose to the House in the course of the present Session an Estimate of the damage done to the owners of property through the explosion, and he hoped that on that occasion he would be able to make a state-
 1924
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the total abolition of the Church Establishment in Jamaica was by no means contemplated either by the Governor of that Island or by Her Majesty's Government; but that nothing which had been done would preclude such a proposition as that being made if such a thing could ever be thought desirable by those concerned.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that Sir J. P. Grant had acted in accordance with the views of the Home Government, that the Ecclesiastical Establishment of Jamaica should be reduced on account of its being considered excessive; and that consequently no vacancies would be filled up at present. Several vacancies had occurred since the Despatch alluded to had been received, but arrangements had been made to have the duties of these clergymen temporarily discharged in view of the revision of the whole system, which would take place in December 1869, when the
 1923
 MR. NEATE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he has received a statement of the amount of the sum raised by private subscription for the relief of the sufferers by the Clerkenwell Explosion, and of the past and proposed future application of such sum; and, whether he will lay such statement upon the Table of the House?
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  disclaimed any idea of making special reference to anything that had occurred since the noble Earl had held Office, He had only spoken generally of the system; and if his noble Friend thought this system perfect, all he could say was that he did not agree with him.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  explained that he had not said that troops were never required, but that they ought not be be lightly used.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he was quite of an opposite opinion to that of the hon. and gallant Member who said that was a Bill for the promotion of anarchy and bloodshed in Ireland. He thought that a change in the law on that subject was necessary, particularly as a General Election was approaching, and it was very desirable that they should have some convenient time fixed for the discussion of that measure. In his opinion the military had been too lightly used at elections in Ireland.
 MR. SYNAN , concurring with the remark of the noble Lord, moved that the debate should be adjourned till that day week.
 COLONEL FRENCH  seconded the Amendment, and in doing so declared that he looked upon it, not as a religious, but as a physical question. It was really a very serious matter, and one that was very painful to many Knights who had received wounds in the service of their country, that they should be compelled to attend in a large hall, theoretically for the benefit of their souls, but in reality only to have
 1976
 GENERAL DUNNE  contended that it was fallacious to institute a comparison, as was often done, between the army of this country and those on the Continent. In France and in Prussia, for instance, every man was liable to serve; but the system in practice there could not be carried out here, because it was not popular. Recruits were now enlisted by the Pensioners, and at the head-quarters of the regiments, but a good deal of jealousy existed between the two, the Pensioners believing, and with some reason, that recruiting through them was not received with so much favour as recruiting at head-quarters. He believed that a much larger number of men would enlist from the Militia into the Army of Reserve if they knew that they were not liable to removal from the country except in time of war. During the last war they; had recruiting for the Line and for the; Militia going on at the same time; and
 1959
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  trusted the House would not accede to the Motion or to the Amendment, for these military Knights were, in fact, connected with the Order of the Garter, and, as the beadsmen in the case of the cathedrals, were in reality part of the religious body connected, with the Church. He had received letters from the governors of both the naval and military Knights, stating that nobody had objected to any of these duties.
 1977
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir Colman O'Loghlen), whose Notice of Motion stood next on the Paper, would not proceed with it, as the House was anxious to go on with the more important Business of the evening.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he objected not only to Catholics but to Protestants being obliged to attend Divine service. These poor old gentlemen were many of them above seventy years of age, and they received some £40 and others £100 a year, and a small house in Windsor. They were obliged to attend Divine service twice every Sunday, and every third month to attend every day, unless they could obtain leave of absence. He could not think that there was any necessity for this. He should, of course, regret their not attending; but their attendance ought in no case to be compulsory. The Knights ought to be allowed, if they pleased, to attend the parish church or any other place of worship, an indulgence which was extended to Her Majesty's subjects at Windsor, though denied to these old and meritorious officers. He moved as an Amendment to leave out the words "not being a member of the United Church of England and Ireland."
 COLONEL NORTH  contended that no hardship really existed. He doubted whether the House of Commons could interfere with a Royal Charity. If the Motion were to be made at all it should be for an Address to the Crown. The Governor, in writing to him on the subject, stated that the Roman Catholic Knight to whom the hon. and learned Baronet had referred objected to any change being made in the present regulations, as did also the two Knights who were Dissenters. There was, moreover, no foundation for the statement that fines were ever inflicted. The desire for a change certainly did not emanate from the Knights themselves, and it should be remembered that these distinguished soldiers, though old, were by no means in every case infirm. One of these officers, in writing to him on the subject, attributed the Motion of the hon. and learned Baronet to the instigation of some "grumbling old Knight," and this writer denied, as did the Governor, the existence of any discontent or any practice of levying fines. Occasionally some of the Knights prayed by proxy; and those who performed this service for their comrades would, upon the authority of his correspondent, be happy to include the hon. and learned Baronet in their prayers if he would relieve them from the payment of the borough rates, from which they derived no advantage. He should oppose the Motion, no only because he believed that no grievance really existed, but because he deprecated Parliamentary interference in matters which, relating as they did to a Royal Charity, solely concerned Her Majesty.
 COLONEL NORTH , as an old soldier, thought the remarks that had been made with reference to the events of Saturday last pressed rather hardly on the Volunteer force. He saw battalion after battalion move off the field in a manner that would have done credit to a disciplined force, although many of the men left home at two or three o'clock in the morning, and had been under arms four or five hours in a burning sun; and it would probably be found that the irregularities were caused by small corps that were not attached to battalions, or were not under proper command. He thought a plan might be adopted to bring together all these corps that were either in themselves small or were under officers who had had no experience: and he was sure they would do better, with more practice, under the command of General Lindsay, animated as they were by the desire to discharge their duty; but you could not make a soldier in a day. He must say it excited his own admiration on Saturday to see the manner in which battalion after battalion left the field.
 MR. EYKYN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he desired to confirm what had just fallen from the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel North). He had heard the strongest opinions expressed in reference to the disaster of Saturday last by Volunteer officers, and he had been requested to express on their behalf the most earnest desire that the matter should be seriously investigated. It might, perhaps, turn out that the report—which was only a report as yet—was true, that the disaster—for he could call it nothing else—was wholly occasioned by the fact that some of the Volunteer officers did not remain with their men, and left them to find their way to the station as they could. He had more than once seen bodies of 2,000 or 3,000 Volunteers maintain a perfect discipline under circumstances of great trial, when the officers remained at their post; and he believed that the private
 1969
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to know, If the total abolition of the Ecclesiastical Establishments of Jamaica will be proposed if it should be thought expedient?
 MR. W E. FORSTER  said, he would now beg to ask the Under Secretary of Slate for the Colonies, If he can inform the House whether Sir J. P. Grant, the Governor of Jamaica, has acted in accordance with his Despatch to the Earl of Carnarvon of the 24th November 1866 (Parliamentary Paper, Affairs of Jamaica, July, 1867), in which he states that he has proposed to the Bishop of Kingston to fill up no vacancies occurring in the Ecclesiastical Establishment of Jamaica between the date of such Despatch and the close of the year 1869, when the Colonial Statutes affecting such Establishment expire; and, whether there has been and Correspondence between the Colonial Office and the Governor of Jamaica respecting the course to be taken upon the expiration of the Jamaica Clergy Acts; and, if so, whether he will lay such Correspondence upon the Table of the House?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he was in the hands of the House, but he would undertake to be very short in what
 1974 1975
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  declined to withdraw the Motion. He accepted the Amendment of the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) and disclaimed any intention of infringing the Queen's Prerogative, his Motion being simply for a humble Address to Her Majesty.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he was glad to observe the attention which the House was paying to this subject. He had listened with great pleasure to the speech of his right hon. and gallant Friend (General Peel), from which they had gained so much information. The question was how they would stand if
 1960
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied to the hon. and gallant Member for Great Marlow (Colonel 'Williams) in the affirmative.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he quite agreed with those Gentlemen who had recognized the great importance of the subject which his noble Friend had brought before the House, and he admitted that his noble Friend, entertaining the views which he did, was entitled to great credit for the steps he had taken, and the able statement he had laid before the House. But, though the Notice of his noble Friend referred entirely to the formation of an Army of Reserve, he had entered into statements with regard to the cost of the British Army which it was impossible to pass over without notice. It was much to be lamented that—inadvertently he was sure, on the part of his noble Friend, but constantly on the part of speakers in that House and writers in the; public Press—the cost of the British Army
 1963 1964 "And to consider, keeping these objects in view, whether it may be necessary or desirable to enforce the ballot for the Militia.; and if so, in what way this may be done so as to effect the desired end, and at the same time press most lightly on the country." 1965 1966 1967 1968
 MR. BRUCE  said, that as Her Majesty's Government had, in consequence of the pressure of public Business, found it expedient to withdraw a measure which dealt only fragmentary with the education question, the House would not be surprised at his withdrawing one which, as he conceived, dealt with the whole subject of elementary education. He was anxious, however, to offer some observations on the matter. The Government had, to a certain extent, fulfilled the undertaking entered into at the beginning of the Session, the President of the Council having introduced a measure which might have been fairly accepted as an instalment, and which foreshadowed a more comprehensive scheme. Some, indeed, of its proposals might have been carried into effect by a mere alteration of the Minutes of Council—such as the recognition of secular schools, the increased building grants, and the changes affecting the smaller country schools; but other portions of the Bill could not have been so dealt with, and clearly indicated the belief of the Government that a larger measure
 1984 1985 "They (the Committee) came to the conclusion to take a definite district in Manchester; to canvass that district thoroughly, so as to get at all the facts with regard to education, and to put them into a shape that would bear the closest investigation. That report, which referred to a population of 92,000, or about one-fourth of the population of the borough, he begged now to hand in. All the sheets were in his possession, and he could refer to every house throughout that 92,000 inhabitants, so that the Report would bear the strictest investigation. The canvassers (who were all ex-police inspectors or relieving officers, familiar with statistical inquiries) were simply instructed to study the headings of the sheets, and to see that all the questions were answered." 1986 The Times "Between the 1st of September and the 1st of December, 1866, 7,948 children and young persons, under sixteen years of age, were educationally tested  vivâ voce 1987 1988 "We do not apprehend that there can be any real doubt that the great majority of parents would decidedly desire that their children should be religiously brought up. We are told 'that when boys are sent as boarders the parents generally stipulate that they shall attend church, or some other place of worship;' 'that very few express the least wish for a purely secular system;' 'that the vast majority would be unwilling to see the subject of religion, and especially the reading of the Bible, excluded from the schools.' And this evidence is confirmed by too many slighter indications from other sources to leave any doubt on our minds that, on the whole, the parents not only desire that their children should be taught religious truths, but that they should learn it where they learn other things—that is, at school." 1989
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would not weary the House with any opinion of his own as to the extent to which education might more or less be wanted; but he thought that the constant increase of education from year to year showed plainly that there was a field yet to be occupied. The real question was in what manner was the desired extension of education most likely to be accomplished. For many years they had bad the voluntary system, aided to a
 2009
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he believed that in this country compulsory attendance would be supported by the hearty good-will of the parents. Much good would result from compelling the children who might be seen thronging many streets, utterly abandoned by their parents, to go to school. He regretted that it should have been necessary to withdraw the Bill.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON , in seconding the Motion, said, there was no branch of trade in Ireland in so much decay, and which so much required assistance, as the sea fisheries. He hoped and expected that the House would sanction the principle of the Bill which had been introduced, in order to develop this branch of Irish industry. There was no decrease in the quantity of fish to be found in the seas surrounding Ireland; but the number of fishermen had decreased, and this, to his mind, proved that there was something radically wrong in the present system, and that it was desirable to assist the poor fishermen in providing themselves with the means of taking the fish and bringing them to market. During the last ten years, the number of both men and ships engaged in the Irish deep sea fishery had diminished more than one-half, and the industry could only only be revived by a loan of public money, and by its being placed under the superintendence of competent and active inspectors. The present inspectors were officers of the Board of Works, who were engaged one day in considering the advisability of granting a loan for drainage works in Ulster, another day in deciding whether a fence should be erected in Phoenix Park, or whether n railing should be re-gilt, and on the following day had to form themselves into a Fishery Board and plunge into the difficult subject of nets and meshes, trawling, and so on. One of the most important parts of the Bill was that which placed the new inspectors under the
 2018
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he should be the last to underrate the importance of the question with which the Bill proposed to deal. It was quite true that the Irish fisheries were in a languishing condition; and there was hardly any subject more worthy to occupy the time and attention of the House. In his opinion the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Blake) had done great and valuable public service in bringing this question forward. He thought that the decrease in the number of persons said to be engaged in this branch of industry had been over-estimated, and he proposed to institute an inquiry during the autumn, by which the exact number of the persons so engaged might be ascertained. The decrease was no doubt out of proportion to the decrease of the population; but he doubted if the number said to have been formerly employed could be relied on as consisting of persons engaged solely in that branch of industry. He was not sanguine, however, about the possibility of passing the present Bill during this Session; for there were difficult and delicate matters of detail to be settled before any satisfactory conclusion could be arrived at. The Bill proposed to create a central authority, which should form a portion of the Irish Government. There were to be three Commissioners, who were to have jurisdiction over the river as well as the sea fisheries. This would be a great improvement upon the present system, under which no member of the Government was responsible for the acts of the fishery inspectors. He must, however, point out that there was in existence a Special Com-
 2020 2021
 LORD FREDERICK CAVENDISH  said, that a fact which proved more clearly than the number of attendances at school, that education in this country was not in a desirable state was, the number of persons signing the marriage register with a mark. Twenty years ago the males so signing were in the proportion of 32 per cent, and the progress since made had only reduced that proportion to 21 per cent; so that one-fifth of the population were unable to write their names. Within the last few years great attention had been directed to what was called technical education; and the reason why mechanics' institutes had entirely failed to give that species of education was because the young men attending them, instead of being qualified to learn science, had to learn to read and write and to acquire the rudiments of education. The present condition of things being thus unsatisfactory the question arose, what was to be done. For his own part he did not think that they could attain the end in view by an extension of the present system. They must, he thought, look to a system of local management and local taxation. The difficulty was that in many places where education was most wanted, the rates were so high that it was almost hopeless to look forward to the imposition of an additional rate; but, as it was to the advantage of the employers of labour that the employed should be educated, he would suggest that the former should defray one-half of the cost of education and that the other half should be defrayed by the ordinary ratepayers. It seemed to him that the religious difficulty was very fairly and fully met by the present measure, and he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would take the first opportunity of again introducing his Bill.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that as he had understood that the Bill was to be withdrawn, he had come down to the House without any expectation that he would he called upon to address it. Nor would be now trespass on the time of the House, had not the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Merthyr Tydvil thought proper to attack with some acrimony a speech which he had made about three weeks ago. At that time the debate lasted many hours, and the right hon. Gentleman took part in it. Yet instead of impugning his position at that time, he took three months' consideration before he thought fit
 1999 Times 2000 The Times 2001 bonâ fide 2002 2003 nil 2004 2005 2006 2007
 MR. SAMUELSON  said, he had not heard any one complain of the peculiar darkness of the agricultural districts; and he could not therefore understand the protest of the hon. Member who had just addressed the House. Where due provision was made for the education of the children in the agricultural districts it was not proposed to force upon them either a system of rating or compulsory education. He was glad the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bruce) had withdrawn his Bill, because it either went too far or not far enough. In his opinion, it did not go far enough. He thought there were two conditions on which they might fairly insist—first, that no locality should be called upon to make an educational rate without having power to enforce the attendance of the
 1993
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that by the 15th clause of the Bill the owner of a foreshore might lay down oyster beds at low water mark; but if he did not any other person might do so without his consent, the consent of the Commissioners being sufficient. This was an interference with private property which he thought the House ought not to allow.
 MR. E. POTTER , said, he would be glad to give his support to the Bill of his right hon. Friend; but he was quite satisfied that the ratepayers in the larger towns of this country would not submit to an educational rate, unless Parliament compelled the attendance at school of those for whom the rate was most specially needed. There existed an appalling amount of ignorance, which could only be removed by a compulsory system of education for the labouring classes. Such a system would enable them in manufacturing towns to get rid of the half-time system, which was, in his opinion, most ineffective, and which he had heard described as a perfect sham. Compulsory education probably meant secular education; but if this were given, religious education would surely be brought in to
 2008
 MR. AKROYD  said, he was satisfied that the present system to which the country was now accustomed, if carried out and supplemented, would give all that was required in the way of national education. He was indeed surprised that the existing system had done so much, considering how it was administered. The factory education system was about to be extended in all directions, and when that was done there would be a good education provided for all the labouring classes of the country. He should object to any proposal to educate the children of the well-to-do labourers and working men out of the rates, and he believed that these classes themselves would scorn being assisted by any such means in educating their children. He believed that a compulsory system would be totally inoperative. With respect to one class, however, he would not object to the application of compulsory provisions. There was in all large towns a population of children who were left to wander the streets uncared for. He thought that this class of children should be compelled to go to school; that they should be educated at the expense of funds supplied by rates, and that the money should be administered under local authority. There was only one other class whose education should come upon the rates, and that was the class composed of the children of out-door paupers. The children of in-door paupers were now educated at the cost of the parish; but the children of
 2010
 MR. GREENE  said, he was quite as much in favour of popular education as hon. Gentlemen opposite. He certainly heard with surprise that the districts which returned leading Members to Parliament were in such a state of utter darkness with respect to elementary education. He believed that the Government Bill was in the main founded on a right principle, and that it would be necessary to have a different system for the manufacturing districts to that which they had for the agricultural districts. In the country districts, where education was attended to by the proprietors of the soil and by the clergy, it might require some supplementary aid, but it would not require to be compulsory. He held in his hands a statement referring to nine parishes in his part of the country, containing a population of 4,947, and it appeared that of the children over ten and under fifteen there were not twenty who could not read and write. There was great misrepresentation abroad as to the state of the agricultural districts; and hon. Members opposite no doubt believed that
 1992
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, the Crown had been defeated on the question of foreshores in Scotland, If Irish Members were united, the same could be done for Ireland. As this Bill had gone through the scrutiny of a Select Committee, he wished to know why it should not proceed, he thought that, as there were not many Irish Bills before the House, the present one might be passed this Session, There was plenty of time to carry it through Parliament. It would prove a valuable measure for Ireland. If they wished to promote the Irish fisheries, they must adopt the Bill and take their management out of the hands of the Board of Works. They only asked for their own money with which to promote local interests.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he hoped the Government would allow the Bill to be read a second time. There would be no difficulty in passing the Bill this Session, for they were all pretty well agreed upon what was wanted. The present Board of Commissioners had failed to discharge their duties, and they were annually renewing, by their appointment, a state of "do nothing," Irish Members were agreed not only upon the main principles but also upon the details of the measure, and what was requited for Ireland, consequently, the Bill need not be long in Committee, He urged the Government, if possible, to pass the Bill this Session. The Treasury was the great difficulty in this, as in all matters relating to Ireland. They were always ready to take money from Ireland, but they were not so ready to give Ireland even what belonged to her.
 MR. DIXON  said, he very much regretted that it had been necessary to withdraw the Bill, which was of a much more complete character than the measure of the Government. The great importance of the subject was being more and more recognized by those in whom the wisdom of Parliament had decided that the greatest portion of political power should he vested. The working classes were beginning to consider in what manner they should use that power in regard to education us the very first question. There was no doubt that the principle of local rating for educational purposes would receive their most cordial support. There was some diversity of opinion about the value of statistics on this subject; for there might be a large number of children at school in a given locality, while the education received might be of a very defective character. Following the example of Manchester, the people of Birmingham had instituted a searching investigation into the education enjoyed by nearly l,000 young persons between the ages of thirteen
 1990 1991
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, that in England there were no Commissioners to frame by-laws for the regulation of fisheries, and he must deprecate the appointment of three fresh Commissioners in Ireland. The Sea Fisheries Commission which reported two years ago did not recommend the continuance of restrictions. He concurred in all that had just fallen from the noble Earl opposite, and was also desirous of guarding himself from being supposed to sanction the principle of loans to the fishermen for the purchase of boats and fishing gear. If such loans were once granted he could not see why the fishermen of Cornwall and other parts of our coasts would not also have a claim upon the public money, or how loans could be refused to other branches of industry in Scotland or in this country.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he wished to point out certain shortcomings in the Bill; before them. Compulsory attendance and compulsory rates must be inseparably associated; because, without the former, the latter would not be accepted by the country, nor would the educational deficiencies of the country be really supplied. He thought that no one could deny that there was a great educational deficiency in this country; for, comparing the population of both nations, there was not one-third of the number of children at school in England that there were in Prussia. Prussia was not now over-educated, and it could not be doubted that if England was equal to that country in education, her people would be happier, better, and
 1998
 MR. JACOB BRIGHT  said, he believed the hon. Member for Bury (Mr. Greene) would find that the educational condition of the agricultural districts generally, was very different from that which appeared to prevail in his own neighbourhood. It was a very general impression that the efforts on behalf of education which were made in the agricultural districts came rather from the clergymen than the owners of the soil; and as it was well known that the resources of the clergy were somewhat crippled, their efforts must be proportionately small. He believed, at the same time, that there were no towns in the country more destitute of educational means than the large towns of Lancashire; and that a larger proportion of their people were either imperfectly educated or not educated at all than in other large towns in England. He was sorry to say this: but all that he cared for in this matter was the truth, The explanation was not difficult. The manufacturing towns of Lancashire were of very rapid growth, and they contained a vast proportion of people depending on weekly wages, and education had not kept pace with the increase of their population. If there was this educational destitution, it might naturally have been expected that there would be efforts to remove it. There had been such efforts, and for the last twenty years educational societies of great influence had existed in Manchester; each with its plan, every one doing the best it could to enlighten public opinion on this question, and engage the attention of the Legislature. Six months ago an Educational Conference of a very influential kind was held in Manchester, at which many Members of Parliament, many ministers of religion, and gentlemen from all parts of the country were present. The opinion not only of that Conference, but of the whole of the great constituency of Manchester, so far as he could ascertain it, was in favour of the Bill of the right hon. Member for Merthyr Tydvil (Mr. Bruce). It was desired that each locality should possess the power of rating itself; and this, he understood, was the principal feature of the Bill. No doubt most communities throughout the country felt themselves
 1994
 MR. BLAKE , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, he wished to give a short history of their present and past condition, in order that the House might see the necessity there was for passing the measure he proposed. Ireland was so noted in early time for the quantity of fish frequenting its coasts that the Danes were led in a great measure to attempt the conquest of the country on that account, and carried on a large trade in that commodity from the harbours in their possession. After the Norman conquest England derived a large revenue from licences to foreigners to fish in the Irish seas. The Dutch gave Charles I. £30,000 for leave to fish on the Western part. In 1556 Philip of Spain paid £1,000 a year for the right of fishing off the North of Ireland, and in 1650 Sweden, in return for services to England, was allowed to employ 100 vessels in the Irish fishery. The Scotch and English fishermen frequented the Irish coasts in preference to their own. The wants of Ireland were fully supplied, and large quantities were exported. So long as they were allowed the Native fishermen prosecuted their calling most industriously. But according to Sir Charles Morgan, in his History of the British Fisheries, the Government did not entertain the idea that "this resource could or ought to be made available for the Irish subject." Against no branch of industry were more merciless efforts directed by England than against the fisheries. The Parliament of the Commonwealth was inundated with petitions from English fishermen, stating the injuries inflicted on them by the rivalry of the Irish fishermen, and praying that they might be discouraged. Cromwell appears to have complied, as according to Pendergast's Cromwellian Settlement," the fishermen and gillers of the herrings were almost exterminated by the transplanting law." No doubt, also, cargoes of fishermen were sent with other deported Irish to Barbadoes and sold. For a long time ordinances were in force forbidding Irish fishermen to go out of harbour to ply their craft while Englishmen were so engaged. The same manifested itself quite as effectually in more recent times. As late as 1804 the Nymph Bank Company Bill to fish the
 2013 2014 "I have heard of no instance of a fisherman having been implicated in the wild and wicked projects of Fenianism." 2015 2016 "It may be said, as it has been said by some, if Irish enterprize cannot help itself, or walk without crutches, Irish enterprize must be allowed to fall. This is not my opinion, or the opinion of my Friends."—[3  Hansard "To ameliorate the condition of Ireland by assisting to develop her industrial resources, and an unwillingness that the drain of her population by emigration should continue." "It is a waste of public available resources to suffer so large a portion of the Empire to lie fallow, or leave it to struggle, by slow advances and with defective means, towards its improvement, when the judicious aid of the State might quickly make it a source of common strength and advantage. It was shown that if the Irish peasantry were placed, in point of comfort, on a par with Great Britain, the Excise duties would show an increase of £6,000,000 per annum. 'This consideration alone,' says the Report, 'ought to silence any objection, on the ground of expense, against affording public aid, such as may be required, for these works, as it gives an enormous profit on the greatest contemplated outlay.'" 2017
 MR. BLAKE  said, that by the law as
 2019
 MR HUBBARD  said, he hailed with the greatest satisfaction the declaration
 1995 1996 1997
 MR. RAMSAY  said, that the question of compulsory education had been much under consideration in Scotland, and the Reports laid before Parliament threw great light on the subject. In 1859 the Scotch Commissioners of Education sent a gentleman to make inquiries respecting the Prussian system, and it did not appear from his Report that he was at all of opinion that compulsory education at school was secured by legal enactment. He rather came to the conclusion that the efficient attendance at school was the result of the sentiment of the people. With regard to America, Mr. Fraser said that the law to secure compulsory attendance had been totally inoperative. There could be no doubt that in this country also any law of that kind would be inoperative, because the people were not accustomed to such interference on the part of the State with the duties of parents.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the main objection of his hon. Friend who had just sat down to the granting of loans to the Irish fishermen was that if this were done for Ireland it should be done for Scotland and England. His answer was that Ireland was a more backward country than either Scotland or England, Government might very properly undertake to do things for a country which was industrially backward, which no one could expect from them
 2022
 MR. GRAVES  said, he should support the Bill, and he regretted that there were not more Bills of such a practical character brought forward for Ireland. When on a visit to that country, he was struck with the indifference to this important branch of trade. He was led to believe that the Irish fisheries were greatly neglected by the Board of Works. No sheds were erected in which the fish might be cured, and no standard value was placed upon the fish as was the case in Scotland, and thus the Irish fish only commanded a very low price in foreign markets. He hoped that the Bill would pass in the course of the present Session.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had stated that the effect of the Bill would be to break up the present system, Now, the promoters of the measure believed that it would have a totally opposite effect. They knew that in our large towns especially, and to some extent in country districts, the present machinery of education did not keep pace with the demands upon it, and that it was beyond voluntary effort to provide for the education of the large populations which were growing up. The supporters of the Bill were, however, aware that these efforts had effected the greatest possible good, and they desired to supply the want which existed without interfering with the benefit which was at present accomplished by the voluntary system. They considered that this Bill would accomplish several good objects and would do no injury to any class of the community. He did not think his noble Friend (Lord Robert Montagu) had read or studied the Bill, or was aware of the great public meetings which had been held in support of it. The conditions of the Bill could scarcely be objected to. One condition was, that inasmuch as those schools would be supported by the public money—all the children in the country should have free access to them. Another condition was what was called the Conscience Clause—that was a clause which not only respected the conscientious feelings of the parents and guardians, but also those of the managers and schoolmasters. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Bruce) was right in not attempting to push the present measure any further this Session; but if there was one thing more likely than another to follow from a Reformed Parliament, in which the best of the working classes would have great influence, it would be the adoption of some national means to meet the great evil of want of education. An enormous population could not be allowed to grow up and he left to the chance action of voluntary aid. If the principle were acknowledged that the children of the poorer classes should be taught, then in no more considerate manner could that principle be carried out than by the present, Bill. As its promoters were quite aware
 2011
 MAJOR PARKER  said, he would not have risen on that occasion had not the right hon. Member for Merthyr (Mr. Bruce) thought fit to lecture the farmers of England for their presumed neglect of duty in the matter of education, and for showing an unwillingness to accept the principle of a compulsory education rate. The farmers of England were quite prepared to bear, with every other portion of the community, their fair share of any burdens which the Legislature in its wisdom might impose upon them; and they would certainly never be found backward in supporting any movement that would be really beneficial to the poorer classes. But they would expect that, in respect to general taxation, the scales would be held evenly between the different interests of the country. It ought not to be forgotten that at that period, when the farmers were supposed to be best able to contribute to any educational funds—harvest time—70 per cent was levied on one of the most important productions of the soil.
 MR. CARTER  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether Her Majesty's Government in withdrawing from the Railways' Regulation Bill the Clauses they had inserted in it for amending, in certain respects, the General Carriers' Act, were satisfied that the provisions of that Act, passed nearly forty years since, are suitable to the requirements of the present day; or whether the Government still remain of opinion that the Carriers' Act requires amendment, and ought to be revised by Parliament?
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, the abuses attending on the practice of Coolie emigration from Macao are grave and notorious. We have from time to time brought the matter under the notice of the Portuguese Government, and we have invited Portugal to co-operate with France, England, and other Powers in endeavouring to come to some satisfactory arrangement with the Chinese Government on the question of Coolie emigration generally. To that communication we have as yet received no answer from the Portuguese Government. With reference to the parallel drawn by the hon. Member between the Coolie emigration and the slave trade, I may remind him that in the case of the slave trade, wherever it is carried on, we have the right to interfere by treaty either with Portugal or with any other Power that may be concerned. In the case of the Coolie emigration, we have no right of interference whatever, except that right which every Government has to give such friendly advice to any other Government as it thinks fit. But beyond that we have no power.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I think the best Answer I can give the hon. Member is, that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to attempt to influence in any way the Servian Government or the Servian people in the choice of a Prince, so long, of course, as they observe those international obligations into which they have entered; and there is every reason to believe that they intend to do so. I have every reason to suppose, so far as I can judge from anything that has yet reached me, that a similar decision will be come to and a similar course pursued by the other great Powers.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If the Government, having regard to their declaration that it is their intention to introduce a Bill for the general valuation of Ireland next year, have instructed the Revenue Department not to enforce an arbitrary rule for fixing the charge for licences in Ireland, based on an admittedly unequal valuation?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in reply, said, that a Royal Commission was to be issued for the purpose of instituting an inquiry into the entire judicial system of Scotland; and he could also state that the passing of the Court of Session Bill would not tend to delay the Report of the Commission.
 MR. BROMLEY-DAVENPORT  thought the Peel Statue ought to be removed, and that it was a disgrace to the memory of his late Friend Baron Marochetti. In his opinion it would be well if the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works would also remove all the statues from Westminster Hall, instead of adding to their number. He hoped that whatever experiments might in future be made, Westminster Hall would be held sacred.
 MR. GRANT DUFF , in rising to put a Question to the Prime Minister in reference to some passages in his speech last week, at Merchant Taylors' Hall, said, the right hon. Gentleman was reported to have used on that occasion the following words:—
 "When we acceded to Office the name of England was a name of suspicion and distrust in every foreign Court and Cabinet. There was no possibility of that cordial action with any of the great Powers which is the only security for peace; and in consequence of that want of cordiality wars were frequently occurring. But since we entered upon Office and public affairs were ad-
 2151 "But when I tell you, and I tell you seriously, that the question of peace and war when we acceded to Office was not a question of weeks or days, but of hours, I am sure you will remember that peace has been preserved while the honour of the country has been vindicated." "And, my Lords, desirous more especially at this critical moment for the public interest that the thread of foreign negotiations should not be abruptly broken, I was anxious that those hands which had so long exercised the power of dealing with foreign affairs should still continue to do so, and therefore the first person to whom I made an offer of Office was my noble Friend the late Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (the Earl of Clarendon). My Lords, I made that offer in all sincerity, believing that between my noble Friend and myself there existed no material difference of
 2152 2153
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I had expected that after the remarks of my hon. Friend near me either the right hon. Gentleman opposite, appealing to the indulgence of the House, which is usually accorded under such circumstances, or some other Member of Her Majesty's Government, would have risen in his place and have replied to the observations which have been made from these Benches. I am, of course, assuming that the Members of Her
 2159 2160 2161
 MR. GLADSTONE : But you told us that it was quite true that the name of England in every foreign Court was a name of distrust and suspicion.
 MR. GLADSTONE : And the state of things he brought about was continued by Lord Clarendon, who identified himself completely with the policy of Earl Russell. And yet this was the Foreign Minister whom Lord Derby was so anxious to enlist among his ranks upon the formation of his Government. Again, in 1858, the right hon. Gentleman attributed the fact that war was about to break forth in Europe to the fault of the foreign policy of the Government which preceded that of Lord Derby. But Lord Derby in that instance also gave similar testimony, for he had said, in 1855—
 "I stated to Her Majesty that I conceived it would have been an immense advantage to any Government to have among its members one who is perfectly conversant with the whole diplomacy of the last two years, and with the feelings and proceedings of various Courts of Europe."…[That is to say, the feelings of suspicion and distrust.] "I took the liberty to add, with regard to my noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, (the Earl of Clarendon) that I entertained the highest opinion of the ability, the industry, and the zeal with which he had discharged the duties of his Office……The only part of the course I have pursued to which I look back with the least doubt or incertitude is with respect to the propriety of my abstaining from making any communication either to the noble Earl directly, or to the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Lansdowne) near him." [3  Hansard, 2162
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I am sure the House will feel that it is with the greatest reluctance that, holding my present Office, I take a part in this discussion But I must say that if a general debate is to be raised on the foreign policy of this country it should be raised in a form more convenient than that which the hon. Member for the Elgin burghs (Mr. Grant Duff) has adopted on the present occasion. In a matter of this kind I do not complain of the want of Notice, because a Minister ought always to be prepared to defend his policy; but at the same time I must be permitted to express my opinion that a desultory discussion brought on in this way and dealing with half a dozen topics at a time is not a discussion that can result in
 2163 Queen Victoria, Mermaid. Tornado. 2164 Alabama Alabama 2165
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the letter of re-call was written by his predecessor at the Foreign Office, but it never reached Consul Cameron as he was in confinement. A somewhat nice question thereupon arose whether Consul Cameron had been re-called or not. He had borne a severe and painful imprisonment. Whether he had been well-advised or not, he had acted to the beat of his judgment, and having suffered very seriously it would not be the wish of the Committee that he should be dealt with hardly.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the speech of the hon. Member was addressed to the whole principle of the Bill; for it was again raising the question that had been raised upon the second reading; and on going into Committee. The Bill was set down for to-night with a view of proceeding with the details. If the House was disposed to stop the Bill it could do so,
 2174
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he thought that the House, in affirming the principle of the Bill, declared not that it was prepared to part with its jurisdiction, but that it would feel itself justified in laying down more stringent regulations on the subject of Corrupt Practices at Elections. He was glad that the question was raised whether the House was prepared to part with its jurisdiction in reference to Election Petitions. The general feeling among the independent Members was in favour of the jurisdiction of the House being retained. He must say that he thought the argument of the Judges, that too much work would be imposed upon them, and that their office would be lowered if they were mixed up with elections, was unanswerable. It was said that the expense would be diminished by trying these questions on the spot; but he believed that it would cost more to take counsel down than it would to bring witnesses up. Moreover, it was intended to continue the system of Commissions for general inquiries, so that the Judges would be limited to particular inquiries. It would be derogatory to the dignity of that House part with its jurisdiction to try Election Petitions, and to hand such inquiries over to Judges who were the nominees of the Crown. Was it right that it should be left to nominees of the Crown to determine who were and who were not the representatives of the people in that House? It was unconstitutional, and if they wished to find anything like it they must go back to the days of the Star Chamber. There was, moreover, no necessity for adopting it; for he believed that the proceedings of the House on Election Petitions had generally been fair and just. The only thing wanting to their decisions was uniformity, and this could be obtained by having Judges or lawyers, in whom they ought to place confidence, to sit as assessors to Committees. The Bill proposed that the Judges should decide, without the assistance of a jury, questions both of law and fact. The present moment also was an unhappy one for adopting such a change, before they knew how the new constituency would work.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, that all other representative assemblies retained in their own hands the power of verifying the election of their own Members, and on what ground was that House
 2175
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the greater part of the speech of the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. P. Wykeham Martin) was applicable to subsequent clauses, and had nothing to do with the present clause, which did not deal with punishment. He assured the hon. Member that there was not the smallest symp-
 2176 2177 2178
 MR. DENMAN  said, the discussion convinced him that it would have been better to have listened to his suggestion on a former occasion and have postponed all the clauses relative to the new tribunal, in order that those clauses might go before the Committee again. They would then have been in a better position to deal with the question of tribunal. His proposal need not have proved fatal to the Bill. The words now in question were of no vital moment, because they might as well enact for the present that an Election Petition should be presented to the House of Commons as to the Court of Common Pleas. If the words "House of Commons" were
 2179 2180
 MR. VANCE  said, he looked upon the Bill as the Bill of a Select Committee rather than of the Government, and he did not hesitate to say that the Bill, if passed, would defeat its own object. It would put an end to Petitions. There was scarcely any borough which could stand the test of an inquiry instituted before a local tribunal; and the consequence would be that candidates unwilling to kill the goose which laid the golden eggs would hesitate to petition against the return for a borough which they might hope to represent at some future period. Another disadvantage connected with a local tribunal would be that the services of a competent bar would not be likely to be secured. Then, the single Judge, from the fact of his sitting singly, must be open to suspicion.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that, in the course of the rather severe criticisms which had been made upon the Bill, it seemed to have been forgotten that, whatever might be its defects, it provided one of the most important remedies for bribery and corruption—a local investigation. His own opinion was that the worst plan which involved such an investigation would be better than the best plan without it. But if there were a local investigation the jurisdiction must be altered; and the question was whether a tribunal should be constituted composed of one of the Judges of the land as proposed in the Government plan, or of a Judge sitting with a jury as suggested by the right hon. Gentlemen the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie)? However that might be he was anxious to impress on the House that any such tribunal would be only fit to be a tribunal of appeal, and that it would be necessary to have besides a tribunal of investigation. The best plan, therefore, to adopt, seemed to him that of which he had given Notice, and which he had drawn up with the assistance of Mr. Serjeant Pulling, providing that the Revising Barrister, an officer conversant with elections, and having a considerable acquaintance with the locality, should be the person to hold the investigation in the first instance. The investigation should take place before the return of the writ, and there should be a scrutiny. They must endeavour to put an end to excessive expenditure; and he thought the expense of the preliminary investigation should be
 2181
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the plan of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) would require 400 Revising Barristers, and he thought the appeal to the Court of Common Pleas was objection able. Local inquiry was admitted to be very desirable, and at the same time there was an objection to get rid of the jurisdiction of that House in the trial of Election Petitions. There could be no question, especially after the speech of the Solicitor General, that local inquiry diminished expense. ["No, no!"] He spoke from some experience, for when he first came into Parliament, it was after an inquiry conducted in his own borough, the parties immediately engaged in which were solicitors on the spot. But he thought that House should not he the first Legislature in the world to give up its jurisdiction in reference to disputed elections. They ought to ensure local inquiry on the one hand, and the retention of jurisdiction on the other. At a time when a review of the whole of our Courts of Justice was imminent, it was most inopportune to create two new Judges. He would therefore suggest that on the presentation of an Election Petition, a barrister should be appointed by some impartial authority to go down to the spot to which the Petition referred, and there take evidence. The barrister should then net before the Election Committee of that House as assessor, being in a position to afford them information as to the manner in which the evidence had been given. No additional evidence should be taken by the Election Committee, unless it was substantiated before them that for special reasons such evidence was desirable. The Committee would retain the entire power of deciding whether the election was or was not an undue election. His scheme was not yet completed, and he should therefore support the Amendment to retain the jurisdiction, with the view of bringing up a clause at a future time to carry out his view.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, that the plan just suggested of a double inquiry would double the expense. What the House desired was that there should be a Court constituted which would give satisfaction, not only to the House, but to the public. He did not
 2182
 MR. PAULL  said, he could not agree with those hon. Members who advocated local inquiry, which would have the effect of reviving the animosities attendant upon the election, instead of allowing them to die out. Moreover, the appearance of one of Her Majesty's Judges in a borough for the purpose of conducting an inquiry of this nature would tend to prolong the saturnalia which hon. Members strongly condemned as one of the vices of the present system. Although inquiries into bribery might be of the highest importance in one sense, yet the questions which were raised upon such an inquiry could hardly be classed with the social questions which usually came before the Judges. They would be taken from their important duties to decide matters of minor importance, and such inquiries, conducted without the assistance of a jury, would tend to bring the Judges into disrespect. It would be said perhaps that a Judge was influenced in consequence of his having recently been a barrister upon that particular circuit, or of his having recently given up a seat in the House in order to take his place upon the Bench. These matters should induce them to pause before they cast this duty upon Judges.
 MR. LOWE  said, that last year the House of Commons delegated this most difficult question to seventeen of its Members, who entered into the inquiry free from all political bias, with the determination of seeing whether something could not be done to put down this crying evil, and those seventeen Members came to a unanimous Resolution which was in substance
 2183 2184 2185 morale
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that the statement of his right hon. Friend had not shaken the opinion which he had formed when this Bill was first laid on the table of the House, and which all his subsequent reflection had confirmed. If the choice lay between the Bill, the plan of the Committee, and the present system, his own judgment would be in favour of adhering to the present system. He thought it was an error to say that the House—when it regulated by Act of Parliament the mode in which it would, by its Committees, decide upon Election Petitions—had already parted with its jurisdiction in the same sense, and with the same consequences, as it was now asked to do. When the Whole House decided on Petitions, it was party rallying against party, and it was impossible that an inquiry should be conducted judicially; but it was otherwise when a small number of Members, properly selected, were sworn to do their duty, with the eye of the House and the public resting upon them, within the walls, and, as it were, in the atmosphere of the House, The House
 2186 2187
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he agreed with what his hon. Friend (Sir Roundell Palmer) had said as to the real remedy for corrupt practices; but he wished to point out that the present scheme of a local inquiry, surrounded by judicial forms, had been adopted with the view of changing the spirit of the constituencies by striking at the root of corruption. Local inquiry afforded the best chance of effecting the object they all wished to secure.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that having been a member of the Select Committee which sat last year, he was unable to agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne that the decision of that Committee was arrived at unanimously. The Committee was unanimous only to this extent—that if the jurisdiction were transferred from the House it ought to be conferred on the highest existing judicial tribunal in the country, and not on a body of Commissioners or barristers. He himself had voted in conjunction with the hon.
 2188
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, he must acknowledge the value of local inquiry; but the House ought not to be misled into the belief that a mere transfer to a local tribunal would be necessarily an improvement. The House, he thought, should not be in a hurry to give up its jurisdiction without knowing that the tribunal which it was proposed to substitute for the present one would be an improvement. He should support the Amendment.
 MR. T. CAVE  said, there was one argument which ought to carry weight. ["Divide!"] There were thirteen lawyers who had addressed the Committee, and only three from the general body; and since hon. Members would not listen to him he should move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped the Motion for the adjournment would would not be persisted in. He never knew a Committee in riper mood for discussion. The subject had been discussed with great ability on both sides, and if they did not come to a decision that night he should begin to despair of progress. He was sure that the House would be quite prepared to listen to the hon. Member who had just sat down, and who had perhaps unnecessarily spoken; but if he would only condense his observations he was sure the Committee would not refuse to hear what he had got to say.
 MR. T. CAVE  said, that an hon. Baronet opposite had spoken of the borough which he (Mr. T. Cave) represented as "one of those nasty little corrupt boroughs like Bridgwater." Did not hon. Members expect the representatives of boroughs thus classed to show a little self-respect when a Bill like this was before the House. Well, his argument was this—they were about to pass a Bill which offered two more
 2189
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he rose to express his willingness to proceed with the discussion of the Amendments which stood on the Paper in his name. At that late hour, however, he doubled whether it would be convenient to do so.
 MR. DISRAELI : I have no objection to reporting Progress if the right hon. Gentleman will allow this clause to pass.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he had given way to several hon. Gentlemen that evening who had no more right than himself to address the House on the question before it. He had not sufficient confidence in himself to go against the feeling of the House; but he must say that after the discussion which had taken place he saw no good reason why Progress should not at once be reported.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he hoped that the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock would withdraw his Motion and allow the clause to pass.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  thought the right hon. Gentleman's object in making the Motion must have been to stop the progress of the Bill.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that if the Motion were not withdrawn a very bad impression would be produced in the country. It would be thought that the House was not sincere in the desire to put down corruption.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that it was too had that hon. Gentlemen should rise in their places and talk of what might be said by the country. What did that House, he should like to know, care about such threats? Its object was to put down bribery and corruption, and that could not be done by passing this Bill which was absurd as it stood. It was therefore necessary that the Amendments should be fairly discussed. It was too late an hour to proceed with so important a subject with advantage.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that questions had been repeatedly addressed from his side of the House to the Government with respect to the Bill, and great eagerness professed that it should pass this Session. The Government, in his opinion, had shown themselves most sincere in their endeavour to carry out that object, and yet the obstructions to the progress of the Bill that evening came from Members of the Liberal party. He for one was anxious to dissociate himself from such a line of conduct.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he hoped the Motion for reporting Progress would be persevered in. As far as he was concerned, at the risk of being accused of factious opposition, the clause should not pass tonight. The Bill, should it pass, would, he felt convinced, be received in Ireland with the utmost dissatisfaction and dismay. He
 2193
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I hope this course will not be pursued. On several occasions hon. Gentlemen opposite have expressed the greatest anxiety that this Bill should be proceeded with. By no one has that anxiety been expressed more strongly than by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone), Well, Sir, having just passed what have been called the Supplementary Reform Bills, we have taken the earliest opportunity to proceed with this Bill. But what do we find? That the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire votes to report Progress, so as to obstruct the passing of this measure. No doubt hon. Gentlemen have expressed in speeches and by votes their objections to particular portions of this Bill; but those objections afford no reason why we should report Progress. My hon. and learned Friend the Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman) said he did not care about the country.
 MR. DENMAN : I beg your pardon, I said nothing of the kind; what I said was I did not care about the impression that was produced.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am in the recollection of the House. The words which I caught were that the hon. Gentleman did not care about the country.
 MR. DENMAN : That I did not care what the country would say.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I accept the statement of what the hon. and learned Gentleman intended to say; but, for my part, I confess I am anxious about the impression produced in the country. I am anxious that the country should understand who it is desires to obstruct the Bill, and who it is desires that it should proceed. I do hope that, having had several hours' discussion and a division substantially affirming the principle of the Bill, we shall now be allowed to pass the clauses of the Bill, and not be met by alternate Motions for reporting Progress and the Chairman leaving the Chair.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Ex-
 2194 2195
 MR. PAULL  paid, it was not astonishing that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) should exhibit extraordinary anxiety to clear himself from the charge of factious proceedings, seeing that, after what had occurred, both the House and the country must be disposed to entertain a very strong
 2196
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not understand the exact position of the question, or he would courteously have complied with the suggestion to report Progress. To pass this clause would put an end to the plan he (Mr. Bouverie) had to propose. Having been in the House nearly ever since twelve o'clock yesterday he felt tired, and he thought it not unreasonable to defer bringing forward at so late an hour a new and important Motion, which was favourably viewed by many influential Members of the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not think there is any misunderstanding upon my part. The plan of the right hon. Gentleman depends upon whether Petitions are to be presented to the House of Commons or to the Court of Common Pleas; and that question has been already decided. That decision has disposed of the plan of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). That being the case, it is utterly impossible that the right hon. Gentleman can propose his plan at all; and it seemed to me that decision having been virtually come to on the clause, to report Progress in order to prevent the clause being carried was really trying to cause delay for no purpose whatever.
 MR. CARDWELL : I have been most extremely anxious to hear the plan of my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) argued in this House. It has been long before the public, it has been advocated by high authorities out of doors, and by persons holding Conservative opinions; and, although I do not wish to pledge myself to it, I am extremely desirous of hearing it argued, as we have just heard another plan argued. Although that which has been argued has been supported by all the strength of the Government, they have only had a majority of 20 in a full House; and in the opinion of many of us the plan was effectively disposed of in the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer). Before we finally put the clause into the Bill we want to hear the other plan dis-
 2197
 MR. DISRAELI : There seems to be a desire on the part of many Members of the Committee to discuss the plan of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). Looking at the great quantify of Business that remains, and also at the period of the Session, perhaps the best thing we can do is to report Progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  complained that the Bill had purposely been kept back until a late period of the evening.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he wished to know when the Committee would be resumed, and whether the Bill could be taken at a Morning Sitting?
 MR. DISRAELI : I have put the Bill down for Monday; but, candidly, looking
 2198
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  acknowledged the consistency of the hon. Member for Sheffield in again bringing forward this Motion; but expressed his own opinion that the present time was most inopportune for the consideration of the question. The Northern district of Ireland was a model of what a British settlement should be, and much of this happy state of things was due to the Presbyterian Church. The Vote was a very small sum to give for the advantages which the State receives in return; for wherever Presbyterianism predominates the gaols are empty, and the number of police is infinitesimally small. As the larger question of the Established Church in Ireland had been taken up, it could not be expected that the smaller question of Presbyterian endowment could escape hostile criticism. Retaining the opinions he had often expressed, he should vote against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Sheffield. The grant was paid in consequence of an agreement entered into between the State and the Presbyterian body, when they were induced to undertake the colonization of the North of Ireland in the reign of James I. He submitted that, considering the alteration in the value of money in course of years, there should be an augmentation of the original endowment.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  objected to the statement of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield), that the  Regium Donum
 LORD STANLEY  said, he doubted whether the Vote had really increased to the extent mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. He would also remark that the fact of there being a certain amount of security in these consular appointments induced gentlemen to accept them on comparatively low pay. He thought that when they had sent a man out upon a salary to a post which he had a right to consider a permanent post, they could not very well withdraw him from his employment. Such a course would inflict great injury upon the public service; but he could assure the hon. Gentleman that in every case where he had to appoint a consul he considered first whether there was anything for him to do, and, secondly, whether the salary was excessive for the work required of him. It should also be borne in mind that a sovereign did not represent so much now as it did twenty-five years ago. The cost of living and of house-rent had increased greatly all over the world of late years.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he saw a Vote of £600 for house-rent, &c, for the consul at Massowah. Was there any reason why this Vote should be continued, seeing that the consul had been re-called years ago?
 LORD STANLEY  said, there was no intention to send a new consul to Abyssinia. Consul Cameron had been re-called; but the hon. Member was aware that he had been detained in Abyssinia by causes not within his own control.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he believed Consul Cameron had been recalled when Earl Russell was Foreign Minister.
 COLONEL SYKES  wished to know what had become of the negroes who were captured on the East Coast of Africa?
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Miller), he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, By what authority the Board of Inland Revenue permits the Postmaster General to accept receipts for sums contained in Money Orders of £2 and upwards without payment by the recipient of the Stamp Duty of One Penny, in contravention of the Act 16 & 17  Vict.,
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, it was quite right that these Consular Estimates should be carefully scanned; but it must be borne in mind that our consuls were not Diplomatic agents of the Foreign Office, but were appointed to look after the interests of our enormous trade, and as that trade increased, so it must be expected that the Vote for Consular Services would increase also. His impression was that this country was often very fortunate in obtaining the services of intelligent and respectable gentlemen in foreign forts at a very moderate salary.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he rose to make a Motion which had stood in his name for a long time. When Parliament met last February, the first thing that greeted hon. Members on their way to the House was a strange apparition in a dirty sheet, standing close to the railings by the carriage entrance in New Palace Yard. That apparition they ascertained upon inquiry to
 2139 2140 2141
 LORD ELCHO  explained that he did not wish to alter the responsibility; he only wished that the Head of the Department should have a Council.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he thought his hon. Friend who had just sat down forgot that a short time ago the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne) brought forward the question of the statues in Westminster Hall, and the House decided by an overwhelming majority that the statues should remain there. The noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) had suggested that in matters relating to public edifices and works of art the First Commissioner of Works should be assisted by a Council similar to the Council of India, which he would remind the House consisted of a number of gentlemen who were well paid, and who were debarred from sitting in that House. Probably, however, his noble Friend would wish that the members of his proposed Council should sit in the House; but the only result of that would be that their deliberations would be adjourned from the office to the House of Commons. Not many years ago the office he now held was associated with the Presidency of the Board of Health, and assisted by that kind of council which some were now anxious to associate with the First Commissioner of Works. The result was that when he succeeded to Office in 1852 he found a complete dead-lock. His predecessor, the Duke of Somerset, had taken measures to exclude every member of the Board of Health from his own office, so that no personal communication could occur between the President and the Board of Health. The House found it necessary to revolutionize that Department, and the Board of Health was now placed upon a more sensible foot-
 2147 2148
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he must refer the hon. Member to what happened two years ago, when the Metropolitan Board of Works promoted a Bill, for opening Hamilton Place, which was referred to a Committee, by whom it was rejected, and a year ago when another Bill on the subject and two other Metropolitan Improvement Bills were referred to a Select Committee, presided over by the
 2138
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the hon. Baronet has not given me Notice of his Question; but, so far at least as regards a part of it, I should imagine that it ought to be directed to one of the representatives of the Metropolitan Board of Works.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that after the decision just arrived at by the House the Government would be careful in accepting works of art even as a gift. The cost of what was suggested by the hon. Member would be fully £1,500, and he did not think the Government would be justified in proposing to the House a Vote for the erection of the Tower at some future time on some site now unknown. The case of Burlington House stood in a different position to that then before the House, for Burlington House was Government property, and could be dealt with by them. If the Tower could be retained in its present locality that might be a very desirable arrangement; but the question was one which should be settled between the Ecclesiastical Commissioners and the City authorities.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the intention to appoint Mr. Street was communicated to the Royal Commission without delay. The Commissioners had since held no meeting, and they had therefore expressed no opinion on the subject.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  agreed as to the miserable system on which art matters were managed in the metropolis between the Metropolitan Board of Works on one hand and the Government Office of Works on the other. The statement of the First Commissioner of Works showed that there was no sympathy between the two Departments, and consequently no great work was carried on properly, while, at the same time, the expenditure incurred was enormous. According to the Report on Public Buildings they were about to spend £4,000,000; and surely a system of management ought to be adopted which would be satisfactory to the House of Commons and the country. Let them look for a moment at the ornaments round that House—they were perfectly absurd. Mr. Ruskin had written a book called  The Seven Lamps of Architecture,
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he thought that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down proved the truth of the saying that "Those who complain without cause always complain without temper." He could not compliment the hon. Gentleman on the diplomatic language of his speech. The hon. Gentleman found fault with the expression in the Prime Minister's speech that on the present Government acceding to Office "the name of England was the name of suspicion and distrust in every foreign Court." Was not that the truth? It was by a "meddling and muddling policy" and by going certain lengths in respect to Poland and Denmark and then withdrawing, that suspicion and distrust were excited on the Continent and great evils were produced in this country. Lord Russell, in a memorable despatch, had laid down the principle with respect to other nations that whenever the people of a country thought that they had a sufficient grievance they had a right to rise in arms against their rulers, mid after such a decimation was it surprising that Fenian and other disturbances should have broken out?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : Yes; I said it was brought about by Earl Russell's policy.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : No; I said that the blame lay upon Earl Russell.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  seconded the Motion of his noble Friend with great pleasure, and for three reasons. The first was because it led up the general question of a more efficient Ministry of Arts. The second was his regard for the memory of the amiable and accomplished artist, so lately dead, who had unfortunately produced this statue. The third reason was his veneration for the great name of Peel, which was exposed to perpetual ridicule in connection with that unhappy effigy. He did not believe that it was possible to find greater general lack of art, or more overpowering mediocrity and heaviness than in that figure, stuck up in the corner of Palace Yard, as if it were an Inspector of Police taking the numbers of the cabs and seeing that the Members were not run over. He agreed with his noble Friend that it might be a desirable experiment to strengthen the hands of the Architectural Department by a Consultative Council; but, at the same time he must, by way of cau-
 2142 personnel,
 MR. GODDARD  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there is any probability of the long-pending arrangements with reference to improving the approaches to Park Lane from Piccadilly being shortly carried out, and which the large and increasing traffic through that narrow thoroughfare, as well as the improvements already effected in the upper portions of it, renders so very desirable on behalf of the public interests?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that having had the honour of representing the Foreign Office in that House for five years, he trusted the House would allow him to endeavour to elicit from the right hon. Gentleman a straightforward answer to the Question. ["Oh!"] It was not his business to call the attention of the House to the right hon. Gentleman's speech, but it was quite right that his hon. Friend should do so. The statements of the right hon. Gentleman were capable of proof or they were not; but they would not be proved by mere outcry and clamour from the other side of the House. He was concerned in the grave accusation made, and he thought the other side of the House might allow him to say a few words upon the subject. He did not attach much importance to the vapourings of the right hon. Gentleman; they were the subject of much merriment to many persons; but they were the cause of deep sorrow to those who desired to maintain the character of British statesmen whatever their politics might be. The right hon. Gentleman could not get out of what he said by "chaff," of which he was a master. He said—
 "When we acceded to Office the name of England was a name of suspicion and distrust in every foreign Court and Cabinet. There was no possibility of that cordial action with any of the great Powers which is the only security for peace; and in consequence of that want of cordiality wars were frequently occurring. 2156 Alabama 2157 and cries of 2158 Mermaid Tornado, Alabama
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he would confine himself to the matter before the House. He quite agreed with what had been said by his noble Friend (Lord Elcho); but when, some time ago, in Committee of Supply, he made a few remarks on the Peel Statue, he was quite ignorant that Baron Marochetti was the sculptor. Having been on terms of intimacy with the Baron, and being acquainted with his good qualities, both social and artistic, it was with
 2145
 MR. LAYARD  said, he wished to know, Whether the designs had been exhibited to the public at large or to privileged persons?
 MR. DISRAELI : I think the House will agree with me that it will be convenient not to recur on this occasion to observations which were made ten years ago at a meeting in the county of Buckingham. If we enter into that question, and into discussions as to the political situation at the time, I fear we should have an adjourned debate on foreign affairs in this House, which would not, it seems to me, be desirable, especially as I am informed there is some chance of there being an adjourned debate in the other House of Parliament on a different subject. I think further that the House will agree that if the hon. Gentleman had confined himself to the Question which he had placed on the Paper, and to which I was ready to give an Answer, the time of the House, which is now valuable, might have been spared. Though, I may add, I do not grudge the hon. Gentleman the change which he thought fit to make in his mode of attack, and though I was quite ready to listen to his observations, which I conclude from his criticisms to-night are meant to be models of observations which are not eccentric, it still appears to me that we have hardly been repaid by the exhibition to which we have just listened, for the deviation of the hon. Gentleman from that more modest course of merely putting a Question which he at first proposed to himself to pursue. Really, what the hon. Gentleman wishes to know is whether I made some observations at a banquet in the City, at which I had the honour of being a guest, and whether I am prepared to vindicate them, especially with reference to the noble Lord, who, he told us, has at various times filled eminent posts in the service of Her Majesty, and who has more than once held the office of Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs? So far as I could catch the larger part of the passage read by the hon. Gentleman, and so far as I can judge from that which he printed
 2154
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he was not aware of any formal undertaking of the Government to introduce a Bill next year. He had stated that he thought it desirable one should be introduced in due course, but he was not aware that he gave any distinct promise. No instructions had been
 2137
 MR. BUTLER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Petition presented to the Lords of the Treasury by the Acting Examining Officers in Her Majesty's Customs, praying to be heard before the Committee of Inquiry, will be granted?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the principle upon which the  Regium Donum 2170
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether there is a cordial understanding between the Protecting Powers and the Porte that the National Assembly of Servia should be left at perfect liberty, on the occasion of the present catastrophe, to take such measures for providing for the succession to the Go-
 2136
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the Lords of the Treasury in 1850, on the recommendation of the Commissioners appointed by their Lordships to consider the question of Sunday labour in the Post Office, communicated to the Postmaster General the following regulation for his guidance:—
 "That, in retaining a Sunday delivery of letters in a rural district, the Postmaster General be guided by the prevalent feeling of the locality; and that where the prevalent feeling of the district is opposed to such delivery, the Postmaster General, after satisfying himself of the fact, take the requisite steps for suspending it." 2166
 MR. M'LAREN  protested against the principle that the grant was one which entitled parties on its withdrawal to compensation. The whole system connected with this grant was a rotten one, and he believed that no party would be more benefited by the abolition of the grant than the Presbyterians ministers themselves. Within the last month a meeting of the whole body of Presbyterian ministers in Ireland was held, and a motion was made to strike at the grant, and it was lost only by a majority of about 30 in a very large assembly; and he had no doubt they would find next year that there would be a majority of that body itself against the grant. As to Ireland being too poor for the voluntary system, he could only say that even in the poorest parts of Scotland the voluntary system flourished in the highest degree. The Free Church had raised on the voluntary principle last year upwards of £390,000—just nine times the pittance which the Presbyterians in Ireland came to beg from that House, to be paid by taxes out of the pockets of those who already paid for the support of their own ministers.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was not one of those who pretended to any particular
 2143 2144
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought that a Minister who chose his own advisers was much more responsible than one who had a Council sitting by him with a sort of  quasi
 MR. HOLLAND  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, When the Papers having reference to the "Rule of Road at Sea," and laid upon the Table in December last (but the issue of which has been delayed in consequence of some important Correspondence with the French Government on the subject), will be placed in the hands of Members?
 MR. BENTINCK : Would the hon. Gentleman take any steps to ascertain whether the Judges were unanimous?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Judges of the Designs for the New Courts of Justice were unanimous in recommending the design of Mr. Street as the best for external elevation; and, if not, whether he will give the names of the Judges who supported the recommendation; whether the votes of Messrs, Shaw and Pownall were token on the question, and whether they or either of them concurred in the decision come to; whether the Lord Chancellor, as Head of the Courts of Justice Building Committee, has not announced that the object of the competition was to test generally the relative merits of the architects, so that Mr. Street's design was consequently adopted as the best architectural composition; and, whether the Secretary to the Treasury will exhibit Mr. Street's successful design in the Library, in order that the House may test the decision of the Judges?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he rose to ask Her Majesty's Government, Whether they
 2150
 MR. HADFIELD  was understood to intimate his willingness to withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the House had by a Bill and Resolution suspended all new appointments, whether to the Established Church, Maynooth, or the  Regium Donum, 2167
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he had given a full explanation of this subject a short time since, and was not prepared to enter into the question again without Notice. He might, however, remind the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) that the prize money was principally derived from the sale of the slave ships captured by Her Majesty's ships. The cost of these captured slaves was a decreasing cost. The Vote originally was very large. It was not merely for captured negroes, but also for captured slave ships. The slaves captured on the East Coast of Africa were disposed of in an economical way by being sent to islands in those seas. The great item was the Vote for the mainten-
 2171
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he would inquire whether the Treasury regulations had been in any degree departed from. The matter could not be authoritatively decided except by the officials responsible for carrying out the regulations of the service. He doubted whether a majority of two-thirds of the householders ought to prevent the delivery of Sunday letters; because they might be persons who never received letters, and they would debar those who might have important correspondence to conduct from receiving a due share of the facilities offered by this very efficiently managed service. Such a rule would cause great inconvenience, and would lead to a strong expression of discontent against the suspension of Sunday letters at all. The rule that six-sevenths of the householders should unite in a memorial against Sunday delivery had, he believed, worked well; but he would inquire whether the present regulation was in conformity with the spirit of the direction laid down by the Treasury, and also as to the mode in which it was carried out.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he regretted that he was not in a position to answer the first two Questions of the hon. Gentleman, not being aware whether the Judges were unanimous, or whether the votes of Messrs. Shaw and Pownall, the professional Judges employed, were taken
 2131
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he could not admit that it was any part of his duty to answer that Question.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he believed that the public had the opportunity of gaining admission to the exhibition of the designs.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, he was unable to answer the Question of the hon. Member precisely, and could only say generally that the petition had been received and considered, and would again come under consideration in due course. He could not say that as yet any decision had been come to respecting it, nor could he say that the Commission would be able to examine the officers personally; but the subject at all events was under consideration.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, the authority under which the Postmaster General was relieved from the obligation in question was a letter from the Treasury of the 20th of October, 1853. The whole subject was fully considered then, and it was decided there was no ground whatever for requiring the use of stamped receipts. A company conducting a money order business would not be at all in the same position as the Postmaster General; and it must be remembered that a minimum commission of 3 d.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, his attention had been very recently called to the operation of the clause in question, and it was the opinion of many persons well-qualified to judge that that operation involved some hardship upon meritorious officers. The clause had been continually interpreted in one sense only, and that interpretation could not be altered except by an Act of Parliament. It would be a very serious question to re-open the whole question of superannuation allowances; and he was not prepared at present to bring in a Bill to effect the object of his hon. and gallant Friend; but, having heard of the dissatisfaction which had arisen under this
 2134
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the negotiations between Her Majesty's Government and that of the United States had been somewhat delayed by the state of business in Washington at the time the officer from this country arrived there. The matter was, however, still pending; and during the negotiations it would not be desirable that he should make any statement on the subject. In reply to the second Question of the hon. Gentleman, he had to state that it was the intention of the Government in making new contracts for the conveyance of the Mails to place all the companies on the same footing as to terms of payment and conditions of service.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to observe that his noble Friend (Lord Elcho) had omitted to state that the Wellington Statue at Hyde Park Corner had been placed there in direct defiance of a vote of the House of Commons. What took place was this: the Statue Committee obtained the consent of the Crown to place the statue upon the arch; but an address was voted to the Crown that it should not be placed there. The Committee, however, waited upon Earl Russell, then First Minister, and said that their object was to place the statue on the arch be that the public might have an opportunity of seeing how it would look, and they pledged them-
 2146
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that since 1866–7 the Vote had increased at the rate of about £20,000 a year. A considerable number of the establishments might, with great propriety, be suppressed. Some of the consuls, to his knowledge, in Spain and elsewhere, had literally nothing whatever to do. He last year mentioned the case of Seville, and he could mention it again as a place where the English consul had nothing to do. By not filling up many of the appointments when they became vacant, the expenditure might be reduced by between £30,000 and £40,000 a year.
 MR. CANDLISH  recommended to the hon. Member for Sheffield to withdraw the Amendment; but he hoped that a subsequent Amendment against any increase in the grant would be adopted.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether his attention has been called to the hardship inflicted upon Officers of the Army, Ordnance, Navy, and Marines in respect of Civil Services performed by them, by Clause 16, c. 24, 4 & 5  Will.
 MR. VANCE  said, that the House, instead of grudging this miserable pittance, ought to feel ashamed that the sum granted was so small. £150 ought to be the least stipend granted to any minister.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that the clause relating to the  Regium Donum
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, that no one deprecated more than he did the putting of Questions in that House on questions that had come before the Horse Guards; but he must beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If he can state to the House, whether, in the opinion of his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief, any reflection rests upon Captain Brooke's honour, as an officer and gentleman, in consequence of the dispute which has taken place between him and Captain Peel (late of 11th Hussars), and his subsequent arrest and reprimand? He wished further to ask, Whether the right hon. Gentleman can state for what Captain Brooke was reprimanded?
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, If the intention of the Government to appoint Mr. Street (whose design was approved by the Judges for elevation only) sole Architect of the New Law Courts was communicated to the Royal Commission, and whether the Royal Commission has expressed any opinion on the appointment?
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he was not sure what the precise view of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Oxford (Mr. Cardwell) was. According to what he (Mr. Osborne) heard him say on the subject he was honorary secretary to a committee that had all expired. The right hon. Gentleman had said nothing for the statue, but that it was the work of Baron Marochetti. A most extraordinary speech had been made in reply to the Motion by the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works. As he (Mr. Osborne) understood that speech the noble Lord's advice to the House was, not to let well alone, but to let ill alone. The noble Lord was desirous to let the horrible abomination remain where it was. He (Mr. Osborne) adjured the House in the name of the greatest Member of Parliament of our time to remove what might have been executed by a "stonemason" in the New Road, but what no one would ever suppose to have been the work of Baron Marochetti. If they had any respect for the memory of Sir Robert Peel they could not allow that dreadful effigy of the great and good man to stand in the place it now occupied. He was not going to enter into the question of the appointment of a Council of Taste or Art. For himself he abhorred all such councils for what they produced realized the "Groves of Blarney"—
 "With Pluto and Venus, and bold Nicodemus All standing naked in the open air." 2149
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, that there was an item for Mr. Consul Cameron's salary and house-rent in Abyssinia, whereas he had been re-called two or three years ago. As to his house-rent he always understood that he had been provided with house-room by King Theodore.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, If the Royal Commission about to be issued regarding the Judicial System of Scotland is to be a full and searching inquiry into the constitution, relative position, practice, and procedure of all the Civil Courts Superior and Inferior; and, if, in his opinion, the passing of the Court of Session Bill now before the House will tend to delay legislative action on the Report of that Commission?
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, What is the present position of the negotiations between Her Majesty's Government and that of the United States on the subject of a new Postal Convention; and, whether the Government, in making new Contracts for the Conveyance of the Mails, intend to place all the Companies on the same footing as to terms of payment and conditions of service, carrying out the declaration of Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer on the 20th of March, "that the present arrangement was faulty, because it was wrong that the Companies carrying Mails to America should be under different terms with the Government?"
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government is taking any steps, in conjunction with France and other civilized Powers, to induce the Portuguese Govern-
 2133
 MR. GREGORY  asked whether they were to allow such a caricature of the lineaments of Sir Robert Peel to stand for all future generations because it was erected by private subscription, and because the Government could not answer the question as to what was to be done with it? He would say let the noble Lord hand it back to the subscribers. It was not their fault, but their misfortune that it was a bad statue. At the latter part of his life Baron Marochetti's works were inferior to his earlier productions. If the First Commissioner of Works would not give way, he trusted that the House would divide. But he hoped that the Government would not make it a political question and whip up their followers in a matter of this kind. He hoped the noble Lord (Lord John Manners) would defer to the manifest wish of the House and consent to the removal of an eyesore.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  observed, that the voluntary system worked admirably in Ireland; but, under all the circumstances, it would perhaps be better now to agree to the Vote, on the understanding that the matter would be fully discussed next Session.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he wished to ask a few questions respecting the Vote so far as it concerned liberated Africans. He found that in 1864 six slaves were liberated, and in 1865 none, and yet he found that in 1864, the sum granted for prize money was £7,061; and even in the years when no negroes at all had been captured, prize money was granted. He wanted to know how that happened? He thought the prize system was a had system, and led to much inconvenience.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, as the circumstances had been much altered since the Notice of this Motion was put on the Paper, discussions on the Irish Church and the  Regium Donum 2168 Regium Donum;
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  protested against the Motion being withdrawn after the hon. Member had made a speech on the subject. Other hon. Members were thus debarred from expressing their opinions. The Dissenting congregations of Ireland were too poor to provide anything like the amount that was raised by the Free Church of Scotland. The voluntary system could not exist in Ireland to such an extent as to make it successful. He thought that it would be a great breach
 2169 Regium Donum
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he had always supported the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) in this proposition; but would now suggest to him that, owing to altered circumstances, he would do well not to divide the Committee on this occasion. The hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. Peel Dawson) said the  Regium Donum
 MR. J. HARDY  said, he held that no statue ought to be erected until a model of the same size had been put up, so that a judgment might be formed as to the effect of it. The Peel Statue was most objectionably placed upon a slope, a position which no statue ought to occupy. He would suggest its removal to a place where it could not be seen.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I think, Sir, the House, and I think my hon. and
 2135
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : Sir, the reply of the French Government has been recently received, expressing entire concurrence in the memoranda and diagrams proposed by the Board of Trade in reference to the "Rule of the Road at Sea." The Papers are now in the printer's hands, and I hope may be ready for distribution by the end of next week.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that the Board of Trade had given great consideration to the question, and had come to the conclusion that the Carriers Act, passed in 1830, was unsuited to the existing state of things, especially in regard to
 2132
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, although he had not given Notice of the Question, Whether, in any alterations that may be made, they will be so contrived as to avoid taking down half of Hamilton Place? He would suggest that an improvement might be made by removing a house and stables in Piccadilly, and running a new Street in a straight line from Piccadilly into Park Lane at Stanhope Gate.
 THE EARL OF MAYO,  in reply, said, he
 103
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  asked whether it was competent for his right hon. Friend (Mr. Milner Gibson) to move at this stage the Amendment of which he had given Notice, and which, if carried, would have the effect of defeating the measure?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was quite competent for the right hon. Member to move the Amendment.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU :  * 104 105 "What percentage of home cattle is killed by carcase butchers?—Very small. How much of the foreign supply?—A large proportion." "Foreign meat goes chiefly into the hands of wholesale traders, while the coarse parts go to the low thickly populated districts." 106 "Only the very best foreign beasts go to the West End butchers, and they are smuggled in by night, so as not to be seen; but all the others go to the poorer classes." 107 108 109 s. d., s. d. 110 "If I myself were convinced that a foreign maket would be the only means of protecting this country from the cattle plague, I should say by all means have the foreign market, because any sacrifice would be better than to introduce the cattle-plague again into England; but I believe that is not the proper way." 111 112 "I think it is very necessary that something should be done to prevent the driving of cattle through the streets; I think it is necessary to get rid of many slaughterhouses which I know to be great nuisances, &c." "I say that driving cattle in the heart of the City of London must necessarily, to any unbiassed mind, be a nuisance; no person who means to give a straight-forward answer can deny that." 113 114 d. d. s. s. 115 "CLAYDEN.—540. Then the butcher can give as low a price as he likes by waiting, as the cattle Cannot leave London again?—We are left entirely at his mercy in every way. "LINTOTT.—2907. Without speaking unfairly of your friends in the metropolitan market, do you think the present state of things gives any advantage to the London butchers as regards price?—It is a decided advantage to the London butchers, because if we were allowed to go to buy beasts there and bring them away, the price at times would not be so low as now. In bad weather in the autumn, when the supply is greater than the demand, we have to buy at a higher price, and have to compete with butchers who buy at a lower price. "2962. You say that the existing state of things lessens competition within the metropolitan area to the butchers?—Yes. "SYMONDS.—2840. Do you think at present the London butchers have a complete monopoly of the market as against you?—Yes. "2841. You think that this Bill would have the effect of breaking down that monopoly as against country butchers?—Yes. "2800. Will you give the Committee any reason for that?—Because the London butcher is in a position to dictate terms to the people who send cattle to that market. "STEADWELL.—3038. Do you consider, as regards buying cattle, the London butcher has an advantage which you do not possess yourself?—Quite so. "3069. Therefore, the London butcher enjoys a monopoly over you?—Yes. "3071. The effect of this Bill would be to do away with that monopoly?—Yes. "CLAYDEN.—276. For two or three years the butchers in London have enjoyed the monopoly of all the cattle that have come there?—Yes; most decidedly. "277. What has been the result to the consumers of beef in London?—That the price of meat has been exceedingly high. ‥ Though the prices are quoted high, there are many beasts sold at an exceedingly low price. "SYMONDS.—2858. Has the effect of the restrictions been to seriously reduce the price of meat to the consumer in the metropolis, do you consider?—I think not at all; at the present moment the London butcher is charging more, in the whole, than the country butcher, notwithstanding
 116 117 "WALSH.—3218. Less have come since those restrictions?—Yes. "3203. Before those restrictions more cattle used to come to London than have come since. "3204. Before the restrictions which were put upon the metropolitan market?—Yes. "3288. Have you any reason to believe that if these restrictions are continued the supply of stock sent to London will continue to diminish?—I think-it will from Ireland. "ROBINSON.—1534. That system of restriction prevents us bringing Irish cattle to the London market, because they are obliged to be slaughtered in London now within the district. "1535. Then anything that puts an impediment which, according to your account, there exists at present on importation from Ireland, is a hardship upon Ireland, and a hardship to the consumer here?—Yes. "WALSH.—3352. How has the price of the Irish cattle been affected by these restrictions; is it higher than it was before the cattle plague
 118 "3353. Was it higher '—Lower. "3354. You know there has been a great increase in the price of butchers' meat?—Yes. "3355. The difference must have gone into the hands of one of these middle men?—The butchers; they have made a very good trade of it these last few years. "3215. Do you think in giving this opinion of yours, that you represent theirs also?—I do, of the most respectable part of the trade, and of the grazing trade, I think, entirely in Ireland. "3216. Do you believe it perfectly certain that the grazing trade are entirely in favour of this Bill?—I do. "Mr. VERNON HARCOURT.—That may be taken for granted." s. d. 119 120 "DICKSON.—686. There are so many dairy cows in London, and there are so many calves born in London, and those calves are sent, and will be sent, out into the country, do the best you can and you cannot keep them within the boundary, and those foreign animals will mix alive with your dairy cows in many places, and the Calves will go away and will take the disease. "KITTLE.—2772. To dispose of their calves they frequently attempt to smuggle them out. "PRIESTMAN.—6027. They do have some calves in London, I suppose?—Yes, they do. "6028. Do you know how many they had previous to the cattleplague?—I think they have rather more now, for many people have had their cows bulled since, to preserve them, to save buying fresh animals; to save infection, they have bulled all they could to calve them in. "6029. Then when a witness said that no cakes or next to none were born in London he was mistaken? Yes; I have a large practice, and I know the particulars, though I have not them with me. "6,030. Can you tell us what becomes of these calves?—Many of them are smuggled out of London, I believe. "6,031. Previous to the cattle plague, it was a regular trade to sell the calves in the country?—Yes, it was a trade, and there is a trade carried on just the same now; they go out of London now with all the restrictions; many of them do. "6,061. So that that risk is going on at the present moment?—Just so. "JAMES.—6177. There will always be infringements, no matter how stringent the regulations may be. "A. SCOTT.—7,990. Now, with regard to the passage of cattle through London by railway, what do you think of the Orders which prohibit that arrangement at the present time?—I would respectfully suggest that these Orders are of no real value. I have practical experience of this
 121 "CHAIRMAN.—7991. Do you mean to say that you now send cattle out of London to Reading and Guildford?—I am obliged to do so. I get these cattle, and they are going to the North or South; they must go somehow, and so I send them to Reading and Guildford.
" 7,992. Then you set the Orders in Council at defiance, and send them to Reading and Guildford?—I cannot help myself. "7,993. When did you do that last?—It is a case that is occurring every week." 122 "I believe that all those restrictions might be very well done away with until the cattle plague comes again." fons et origo mali, "I hear a lion in the Lobby roar! Say, Mr. Speaker, shall we shut the door, And keep him out; or let him in To try if we can get him out again?" 123 124 cordon 125 "G. A. ROBINSON.—1705. Are the cattle of Germany ever diseased?—Germany is a large place now; we do not know what Germany consists of at present; but cattle that come from the centre of Europe and that way are very subject to foot-and-mouth complaint; there is scarcely a cargo of German cattle that comes in now where the cattle are not stopped on account of foot-and-mouth complaint. It is, I believe, pretty well admitted that cattle were imported here last year from Germany suffering from cattle plague, and it caused the Bavarian Government to prohibit the transit of Austrian cattle through Bavaria, and for some weeks our trade was stopped; but the Austrian shippers made interest with the Prussian Government, and they got permission to send them through Silesia, and then they came here." 126 127 128 abattoir 129 "The new foreign market, as proposed by the Bill, would undoubtedly do away with the risk of importing the cattle plague." "A resident inspector in the new market will reduce the risk to a minimum." 130 "You are probably aware that the number of butchers in London is 5,000?" "Yes; and I am aware that they are a very dangerous set of men." "The men who buy foreign meat, because it suits the class they supply, also frequent the London cowsheds." "They say a great many funny things," he added; "I have heard them say funny things in this Committee-room since I have been here." 131 "It is a Bill to protect the English farmer at the expense of the foreigner. He would have all the benefit, and we would have all the loss." s. d. s. d. 132 133 "WOODLEY ( reading Report of the Committee of Common Council 134 135 d. s. s. 136 "Why do you suppose that after this Bill is passed the butcher will take a less profit?—His neighbour—that is, the country butcher—will come in then and buy along with him, and he will have to pay the regular country price for his cattle." ad populum, ad misericordiam, 137 138 "5859. But do you not think, if you reduce the area, where the liability of infection exists, you diminish the chance of conveying it, and you increase your power of taking precaution against it?—I think you do. "5860. Therefore, if you get all the cattle, liable to disease on one spot, you would be better able to take precautions against convoying that disease than you would upon the large district of the metropolitan area?—It would be more unmanageable." "7402. Would you suppose that when foreign cattle can only be landed in a small defined part, it would be much easier to inspect them than when they are spread over the whole town?—Yes." "7400. You are aware that that policy has been carried out in all the larger ports except London, are you not?—Yes. "7401. Have you heard of any injury that has accrued from it?—No, I have not."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he regretted that the noble Lord had reflected on the evidence of one of the French witnesses as having been given in the interest of his own country, as if he had come here to promote some object of his own. Now, this French witness was the most dis-
 139
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had stated that this witness had spoken from the French and not from the English point of view.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the noble Lord probably did not remember the words he had used. The Committee were very much indebted to the French Government for the information this gentleman had given. He had asked the Committee to adopt the French system, and that was what we ought to do. That system was to let the cattle in from healthy and uninfected countries, and when they were in to treat them as French cattle, but not to admit them from infected countries. The system had been successful in France, whose Government distinguished between countries that were infected and those that were not, and closed the frontiers of France against importation from particular countries as occasion required. The French Government contrived to get information and to act upon it so successfully that in France the cattle plague had extended only to some forty-five beasts. The noble Lord was the representative of the Privy Council, upon which, however, the greater part of his speech contained the gravest reflections. Notwithstanding the alleged impossibility of distinguishing between one country and another, and the consequent necessity of treating all foreign countries as infected, there was at present an Order in Council founded on the principle that you could distinguish between countries that were infected and those that were not. The Privy Council had great experience in the matter, and no doubt they were acting wisely in admitting cattle from Spain, Portugal, and Normandy into all English ports on the South and West Coasts up to the Mull of Cantire. He had been under the impression that the Government had no real intention of proceeding with this Bill, the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government
 140 Gazette, 141 142 143 144 145 146 147 cordon cordon cordon; 148 149
 MR. NORWOOD,  in seconding the Amendment, said, that the very able speech just delivered by the hon. Member had so exhausted the subject that he would confine himself to stating to the House the very serious results experienced by his constituents from restrictions of a very similar character to those proposed by the Bill. The importation of cattle into Hull in 1865 was 35,000 head; in 1866, when the Order in Council confined the circulation within the borough boundary, the import fell to 23,000; and in 1867, during which slaughter was made compulsory within an area of but ninety acres adjacent to the waterside, it was further reduced to 12,000, while for the five and half months of the present year the import has not exceeded 1,000 head. Thus the import of foreign cattle into Hull has nearly ceased, and his constituents expect that a similar result would attend the operation of the proposed measure in the metropolis. The trading interests of the port had also suffered severely, for the reduction of import had operated in the same proportion on the payments for freight, wharfage, railway carriage, and other charges. In 1865 the freight paid to the steamship owners on cattle alone was estimated at
 150 d.
 MR. SELWIN-IBBETSON  said, that in the Select Committee he had voted with the hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Milner Gibson) for continuing the permissive power to the Privy Council to admit cattle from Spain and Portugal, where no cattle plague had existed; and in so doing he did not think that he had struck at the vital principle of the Bill. Barking Creek had been chosen because it presented the most reasonable prospect of a site within easy limits of the metropolis. After having passed twenty-five days in the Committee with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne, and witnessed his efforts to defeat the Bill, he was not surprised at his Proteus-like appearance in opposition to it again. He found in the right hon. Gentleman a strong supporter of the butchers, of the foreign importer as against the Englishman, and, last of all, an instructor as to the course which he ought to have taken in the interest of the farmer. With respect to the evidence laid before the Committee, the
 151 152
 MR. DENT  said, he believed that the general feeling of the members of the Royal Agricultural Society was in favour of the Bill, but he thought that they did not thoroughly understand what the Bill proposed to do. It was supposed by the farmers generally that the object if the Bill was to confine the sale and slaughter of all foreign cattle to a particular spot at the waterside. He did not think that that was a right description of the nature of the Bill. Already leave had been given for the importation of cattle from Spain, Portugal, and parts of France, and it was quite clear that that principle must be carried out by allowing the introduction of cattle from other places not infected with disease. Perhaps hon. Members were not aware what a large proportion of the metropolitan supply came from countries not infected. He found by the Customs' Report for 1866 that out of a total metropolitan supply of bulls, oxen, and cows, amounting to 145,000 head, 73,000 came from Portugal, Spain, Denmark, France, Sweden, and Norway; so that half the supply came from countries perfectly uninfected by the rinderpest. If a waterside depôt were established in which the cattle from, the uninfected countries were placed in contact with cattle from infected parts a manifest injustice would be done; and if, on the other hand, a market for Russian cattle were exclusively established, the rinderpest would be brought there in a more dangerous form than it had hitherto presented itself. He believed that Mr. Algernon Clarke, of the Central Chamber of Agriculture, had much to do with the concoction of the present Bill, for he wrote to  The Times "The very purpose of such a market is to provide for the constant reception of animals without let or hindrance from all countries whatever, whereas, in the absence of a safety market, animals can be admitted under a rigorous examination only from those ports which from time to time may offer no danger of disease." 153
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he hoped an early day would be named for resuming the discussion.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Milner Gibson) had stated that the Standing Order Committee had had some erroneous information placed before it. He should be glad to know to what the right hon. Gentleman alluded.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he wished to explain, that whereas the right hon. Gentleman had said that the Scotch cattle dealers hoped to gain an additional £2 per head for their cattle if the Bill
 154
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that it could scarcely be said that there was an attempt to defeat the Bill by a side wind when the noble Lord who had charge of it had occupied two hours in addressing the House upon going into Committee. That was the best proof that the subject required ample discussion. He trusted that when the debate came on again opportunity would be afforded for the metropolitan Members to express their opinions with regard to it.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  explained that one of the erroneous statements to which he referred as having been made before the Committee on the Standing Orders was to the effect that there could be no doubt that the opponents before the Committee were the identical persons who in March last petitioned against the clause, and who for twenty-three days, directly or indirectly discussed it without raising this particular objection.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished the First Minister of the Crown would state whether he considered these Morning Sittings satisfactory? His own opinion was that they interfered with the rights of private Members when the House resumed in the evening.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give them full time to discuss the question. He believed they would be able to satisfy him that the Bill could not possibly go on, but still it was desirable that they should have full opportunity of entering into the matter; more especially so as, in consequence of the breach of the Standing Orders, not one out of 100 of his constituents would be at liberty to appear before the House of Lords and demand as of right that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee of the House of Lords, and gone into  de novo.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would put the Bill down for Monday next, not because he had any hope that it would then come on, but to give an opportunity of seeing what arrangement could be made for the discussion of it. He would do what he could to bring about the resumption of the discussion nest week. Although hon.
 155
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he believed that there was a disposition to take either a Morning or an Evening Sitting for the discussion of this Bill. It was a measure of great importance, and ought to be discussed fully.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, in: reply, that the Report of the Schools Inquiry Commissioners would fill about twenty-four thick octavo volumes, eleven of which had already been published. Owing; to the voluminous character of the documents, Her Majesty's Government had not been able so to study and consider them as to arrive at any decision with respect to the legislation which they would recommend upon the subject.
 LORD WILLIAM HAY , in rising to draw the attention of the House to certain Memorials recently presented by the Rankers and Merchants of the City of London, and of Calcutta and Bombay, relative to the Telegraphic Communication with the East, said, that the memorials represented that this telegraphic communication was in an extremely unsatisfactory condition, which the Government were called upon to remedy. It might seem surprising that the enterprize of the present age had not supplied anything like tolerable telegraphic communication between this country and India. But such was the fact, and the reason seemed to him very plain. It seemed that the Government had interfered up to this point—that they had succeeded in paralyzing private and commercial enterprize without giving on their own part complete communication. In 1859 a company was formed to lay a cable from Suez by way of Aden to Bombay. The Government supported the scheme, and gave a guarantee of £36,000 a year for a period of forty years. The cable was laid, but no single message was ever transmitted along the whole length of the line, and the English Exchequer would be burdened for forty years with an expenditure of £36,000 for a cable that was now at the bottom of the Red Sea. The bargain with the company was very carelessly drawn, and ocean telegraphy was then in its infancy. Having burnt their fingers with this line, the Home Government were not in a hurry to inter-
 156 157 "Searcity of water and fodder for camels, paucity of inhabitants, and the usual difficulties of working with large bodies of men through an utterly desert country, are the only obstacles to be overcome." "On the other hand, the question of providing a second or alternative line between England and India is of great and growing importance. It will be seen from the memorial now forwarded that complaint is made of imperfections in the messages by the Persian line, which passes through countries altogether out of British jurisdiction, and having several varieties of race and language. And certainly we apprehend that there is something of precariousness about the Persian line, and that circumstances might at any moment arise to cause either a temporary suspension or a more lengthened interruption of that communication. From every point of view, then, whether political or commercial, the provision of an alternative line becomes important. And any line by the Red Sea is more under our control and protection, and therefore more reliable and permanent, than any line through Persia could be." "Indeed, referring to our Asiatic land lines in general, I would submit that the more I learn of those regions the more strongly I am impressed that large political considerations point to a sea line from England to Alexandria, and from Suez to Bombay, provided such line be practicable; and even if such a sea line should have to be made
 158
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, great credit was due to the present Master of the Rolls for the care and pains which he had taken in having these State Papers given to the public. Still if it were the fact that the public did not buy them, he agreed with the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Pim) that the remedy for this was to lower the price. As to the Patent Rolls and other State Papers a portion of them had been published, and then a stop had been put to the publication of the remainder. The Calendars, from the reign of Henry VIII. to that of Charles I., of the Patent Rolls, had been published, edited by Mr. Morrins, but they had omitted the Records of the time of James I., which were most interesting to the Irish historian. The Records of this reign, or most of it, had been edited by a Commission composed of most able men, some years since, and prepared and published in folio. The Government of each succeeding Ministry had promised either to re-publish them in that form or uniformly with the Calendars of Mr. Morrins, yet none had kept their promise, and they remained inaccessible to the public. The Calendars of Mr. Morrins were severely criticized, and he thought somewhat severely, for he attributed most of the scanty notices in them to the penury of the Treasury which prevented the original being given  in extenso, 167
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Pim) had done good service in bringing the question before the House, and it was highly desirable to show that there were some Members of the House who took an interest in matters of such importance. After hearing the statement of his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury, he was bound to say that he did not think it was desirable that any further reduction of price should take place. Great credit was due to the Government for the endeavours they had made to place at the service of the public Records and ancient documents, not only those belonging to England, but also those belonging to foreign countries. They could not expect Her Majesty's Government to incur a loss in publishing those Calendars, considering the liberality which they and their predecessors had evinced in regard to the compilation of them. It might be a question whether the prefaces to the Records might not be produced separately in a cheap form. The services of Messrs. Burganrot and Brown in connection with this subject were worthy of great praise. A key had been discovered by which to read some most interesting historical documents connected with the history of Isabella of Spain, and other matters intimately connected with important portions of English history. The Government had displayed no parsimony on the subject.
 MR. G. MORRIS  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Royal School of Banagher has not been closed for the last two years; why no Head Master has been during that period appointed; and, what has become of the endowment and emoluments reported by the Royal Commission in 1858 as belonging to that School?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he had been taken by surprise, the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Pim) having concluded his speech with a specific Motion of which no Notice had been given, and he should object to the House pledging itself to any expenditure in reference to these documents without obtaining the advice of the officers conversant with the subject. According to arrangement, these publications were offered for sale at the cost of printing and publishing, but still they were not purchased. The country was under obligation to the noble Lord (Lord Romilly) at the head of the Record Office and his able staff for their services, and this subject had frequently been brought under the notice of the Government. In 1857 an annual sum was voted for the publication of the Records, at a reasonable price. With respect to the suggestion that those books, instead of being kept in store at the Record Office, should be sold at a cheap price or given away, he could state that the giving of them away had been found of no benefit, for nearly all of those which had been so disposed of found their way to second-hand booksellers' stalls, or into waste-paper shops. The only mode by which the documents could be brought to the knowledge of the public was by the labours of literary men, who published
 168
 MR. H. D. SEYMOUR  said, that the first great object to be considered in reference to telegraphic communication with India was to preserve the control of the line in our own hands. The question was whether either of the two alternative lines which the Government of India proposed, both of which passed through Central Asia, and were equally exposed to risk in passing through barbarous countries, should be adopted. He was astonished that the Indian officials, in their communications on this subject, should evince so much ignorance. Each of the telegraph lines proposed was liable to be cut off in the event of war, or to be taken up by foreign Governments. Along the coast line beyond Persia black mail was levied by the
 164 viâ
 MR. BLAKE  suggested that the tens of thousands of copies lying in Dublin Castle and becoming mouldy, should be issued to the public at a reasonable rate. The matter was as important for the whole of the country as for Ireland itself.
 MR. PIM  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Record Publications relating to Great Britain and Ireland, published under the direction of the Master of the Rolls, and to propose means of rendering these valuable works more useful to the Public; and also to call attention to some valuable Irish Records which had been long ready for publication, but were still unpublished. Great expense had been incurred in publishing the Records to which his Motion referred. They had been published in an unwieldly form, in folio, and in consequence of that useless and cumbrous form great loss had been the result of this publication. What he wanted to see was that the Records should be issued in a useful form, and if this were done he should not object to the considerable expense annually incurred in the work of publication. Historically valuable as the Record Publications were, and well worthy of a place in good libraries, either their prices or ignorance of their existence caused them to be neglected, and to remain as useless stores on the shelves of the Stationery Office; and he therefore suggested, as it was better they should be sold at a loss rather than remain unused, that the prices should be reduced, and that copies should be presented to every free library
 166
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he had not heard the statement of the right hon. Baronet with great satisfaction. It was only a repetition of what the right hon. Baronet had stated to the deputation that waited on him a short time ago. But those gentlemen were promoters of the Red Sea line. [Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE: I did not refer to that deputation.] He thought the right hon. Baronet might have referred to that deputation. They consisted of delegates from the commercial bodies of London, Manchester, Liverpool, and other places, yet they had made so little impression on the right hon. Baronet that he forgot to refer to them. It was dangerous to trust to a system any portion of which was under the control of foreign Governments. The exigencies of war would immediately affect telegraphic communication in Europe. Our experience taught us to be suspicious of all telegrams passing along Continental lines, for all those telegrams were examined, and cases were known in which English commercial telegrams were handed to those who were the competitors in trade of England. It was therefore desirable that we should be independent of foreign Powers in our private telegraphic communications. The right hon. Baronet said that the Government were charged with supine-ness with regard to telegraphic communication, but that was not so; all that they were charged with was persisting in the attempt to establish a line of communication which was certain to be a failure. The mercantile community wished to be permitted to communicate with India by way of Egypt, as they would then be independent of political combinations, and also of the difficulties arising from the extremes of climate which were to be found on the Persian route. The northern part of Persia was covered with snow for many months in the year, and during some portion of that period the proposed line would be entirely useless. With regard to management, the business at present was carried on with the greatest carelessness, and he knew of
 163
 MR. BEACH  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, What course the Government intend to take with reference to the Report of the Schools Inquiry Commissioners?
 MR. GRAHAM  said, that the commercial community had no confidence in the present telegraphic lines to India. The intelligence transmitted by them was often betrayed or falsified from corrupt motives. He thought the case might be met by the Government consenting to take a share in a direct line by way of the Red Sea. Even if no dividend at all could be derived from a new line the increase of commerce and general benefit to the two countries would more than re-pay the cost. He was quite certain, however, that a handsome revenue would, under ordinary circumstances, be secured from such a line; but how could any private company be expected to construct it when there was a rival line backed up by the revenue of India and the patronage of the Government?
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  said, there were at present, or shortly would be, two lines of telegraphic communication connecting India with Europe, but he could not regard either of those lines as at all satisfactory. The Turkish line would, he believed, never be in a state of efficiency, and with regard to the other line, it was under the control of Russia, and in the event of war would be useless to us. In the case of any disturbance they would be absolutely at the mercy of the Russian Government, and looking at the gradual approach of Russia towards India, he did not see how we could continue to rely upon such a broken reed as a telegraph line in the power of the Russians. He therefore felt it was very desirable that we should consider some other means of securing telegraphic communication with. India. Looking at the matter in all points of view, however, difficulties seemed to meet them everywhere, both financial and political. It would be a hazardous matter to lay down a submarine telegraph by way of Gibraltar to Alexandria, and again from Suez to India. All that he could venture to do would be to recommend some means to be taken to induce some private company, though not by way of
 165
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he was ready to give the Papers.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, there would be no objection to give the Papers moved for by the noble Lord. In answer to the question of the noble Lord whether the Government would be prepared to give any assistance towards the formation of a new line from India by way of the Red Sea, he thought the noble Lord had been aware that the Government of India had decided not to give any assistance or grant for that purpose. He would shortly state how the question at present stood. The noble Lord had represented that the Government of India had spent something like £900,000 on these communications, and that the receipts from the line were only £92,000 a year. He thought his noble Friend's (Lord William Hay's) calculations were not altogether fair, for he added the cost of the lines constructed to those in course of construction, but considered only the revenue derived from the former, without making any allowance for the increased revenue to be derived from improved com-
 159 160 161 162
 THE EARL OF MAYO  in reply, said, he hoped within the present week to lay on the table a Bill for extending to Ireland the principle of the two Acts alluded to by the hon. Member.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, it was his intention to-morrow to lay on the table of the House, a copy of the letter of Archbishop Leahy and Bishop Dorey, and of his reply thereto.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  cordially endorsed all that the hon. and gallant Baronet had said on this matter. Encouragement to the soldiers in this way was the principal mode in which they could hope to induce a better class of men to enlist in the army. Men in the army were now offered only the inducement of promotion to the noncommissioned ranks, with the addition, after a great many years' good service, of
 318
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he presumed it was not the intention of the hon. and gallant Baronet to press his Motion upon the House for present acceptance, as it would be a great mistake to endeavour to bind the judgment of the House or of the Government with regard to the contents of such a Motion. If that was the intention, he could not concur in the Motion now being put; but, subject to that reservation, he could not help saying how much justice he thought there was in the general desire that had been expressed by the hon. and gallant Baronet. It was, however, a very large subject. He confessed he thought it desirable that a larger scope should be given to the consideration of this subject, which was by no means free from difficulty, The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of the barrier of age. Now, that barrier was one which had not been fixed precipitately but really did represent in a great degree the result of the experience of the authorities in the Civil Service Departments themselves. Now, he was by no means disposed to say that no modifications should take place with reference to this barrier.
 320
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the scheme was necessary to make service in the army popular. With regard to the question of age, he would point out that as men generally entered the army at eighteen for twenty years' service, when they were discharged they were, as a rule, in good health and quite able to discharge their duties in any Government situation to which they might be appointed. His experience of soldiers taken from the ranks for civil employments in India had given him the very highest opinion of the qualifications of the men who would be eligible for the public service. He trusted, therefore, that, as a matter of economy, policy, and justice, the scheme would be carried out.
 MR. GOLDSMID : Mr. Speaker—Sir, in rising to call attention to the recent appointment of Architects for the New Public Buildings in the Metropolis I make no apology, as the question has been already considered in "another place," and as the buildings, when completed, will either be amongst the greatest eyesores or the greatest ornaments of the metropolis. It
 325 The Times 326 "The arrangement of the Courts and Offices is of vital moment; on it mainly depends the success or failure of their concentration, and its importance cannot be over-estimated."—[Sec. 21, p. 7.] "The chief points to be kept constantly in view, and to be treated as superseding, so far as they may conflict, all considerations of architectural effect, are the accommodation to be provided, and the arrangements to be adopted, so as in the greatest degree to facilitate the despatch and the accurate transaction of the law business of the country." "The comparative cost of carrying out each design will be an important element in determining the competition." "The design of Mr. Barry was the best in regard to plan and distribution of the interior, and that the design of Mr. Street was the best in regard to merit as an architectural composition." 327 328 "That it was disagreed with by all the various bodies of the profession, who after all were those best qualified to decide with respect to internal accommodation." 329 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the recent appointment of Architects for the New Public Buildings in the Metropolis."
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that having been one of the Judges of Design, he was not disposed to give a vote on the Motion, but he could not absolve himself from the duty of expressing an opinion on the subject. His hon. Friend had stated the case very luminously and impartially, but he was inclined to demur to the proposition of his hon. Friend that there was sufficient reason why a Select Committee should inquire into the matter. His hon. Friend had pointed out the great difficulty the Government were placed in with respect to the decision they arrived at, and every one must admit that it was impossible for the Government to arrive at any decision which would not be open to plausible, and even more than plausible, objections. In his opinion the Government were perfectly free from blame in the course they had taken
 330
 MR. GOLDSMID  explained that he had not intended to suggest that any wide inquiry should be entered on, but that what he wished to be investigated was the question whether the public faith had been kept.
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  said, he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of the Government to erect a Lighthouse on the Great Basses, for which the shipping of the commerce of the East have for years been subject to a charge without any return or advantage whatever; and, whether the Ceylon Government have not offered to construct and maintain this Lighthouse; and, if so, what objection exists to the proposal?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, in justice to the whole Volunteer Force, any inquiry has been made, or will be made, to ascertain what Volunteer regiments or Volunteers showed a want of discipline at Windsor on Saturday week last; and who are the officers that left their regiments on that occasion? He wished to put this further question, it being stated that one or two companies of some administrative battalions showed great want of subordination, and conducted themselves t with impropriety towards the General in command. If that were proved was it intended to wipe these companies out of the Volunteer  Army List
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to remind the House that when the subject of the purchase of commissions in the army was before the House, he had read a letter from a sergeant in his own regiment, pointing out that the greatest boon to the soldier would be to offer him employment in the Civil Service after his term of military service had expired. He was far from implying that the duties performed by civil clerks were not admirably performed, but he was perfectly certain, from the training which men received in the army, and from what he had seen of military clerks at Wimbledon and Hythe, that they would perform the duties equally well, and their employment in that capacity would not only be most economical to the State, but would add to the efficiency of the army by attracting to it the best men in the country. He saw no reason why the superior clerkships should not be open to retired officers, As regarded the men, giving commissions was no inducement; but it would be a great inducement to offer situations in the public service from £50 to £150 a
 319
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is true that upon the retirement of the late Surgeon in Chief to the Metropolitan Police Force the candidates for that office were informed that the restrictions, debarring the holder of that appointment from pursuing any private or hospital practice, would continue in force; that within a few months of the present Surgeon, Mr. Holmes, being nominated such restrictions were suddenly removed; and whether he is aware that such a rule, though afterwards relaxed, prevented many distinguished men in the medical profession from offering themselves as candidates for that appointment?
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he regretted the tone in which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had spoken of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He (Viscount Enfield) thought the greatest good faith had been displayed by the Secretary of State in dealing with the question under discussion, and he thanked him for the courtesy he invariably exhibited in connection with matters of metropolitan interest. Nothing was easier than to sneer, after the danger was past, at the alarm which had been excited by the Fenian outrages of last winter; but he did not think the hon. Gentleman's constituents would approve of his remarks. The Secretary for the Home Department had, he believed, only done his duty in making an addition to the police force. He would point out that while in 1830 there were 3,274 men in the Metropolitan Police their duties extended only to ten miles round Charing Cross, and that the population which they had to protect amounted only to 1,500,000. In 1839 the area was extended to fifteen miles from Charing Cross, and at the present day a force of something under 8,000 men of all ranks had to protect a population of 3,400,000. But it should not be forgotten that out of those 8,000 men a considerable number were incapacitated for duty by illness and wounds, and that 1,200 were draughted off for special duty in connection with the palaces, museums, and other public buildings. In the City Police there was one man to two-and-a.-half acres of district, and 284 in population. In the Metropolitan Police the proportion was one man to seventy or eighty acres of district, and 600 of popu-
 350
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to certain experiments recently conducted on a large scale at Tottenham, for disintegrating the impurities of Sewage Water by an admixture of alum; whether the Government have called the attention
 308
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that as the system proposed was one which had been recommended by a Royal Commission over which he presided some nine or ten years ago, it was natural he should take an interest in
 323
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he must compliment the hon. Member for Honiton on the judicial temper with which he had introduced the subject; but the proposal to inquire into the appointments of architects during the last few months or years was too considerable to be entertained this Session, and on the part of the Govern-he must take exception to it. There had been considerable misapprehension on the subject; and he might, therefore, state that two or three years ago Mr. Waterhouse received from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper) the appointment of architect of the new buildings at South Kensington that were to receive the Natural History Collections from the British Museum; and fresh instructions with reference to the preparation of plans had recently been sent to him. With regard to Mr. Gilbert Scott, he had within the last few weeks been appointed architect of the proposed Colonial and Home Offices that were to complete the quadrangle now partly formed by the Indian and Foreign Offices. The right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) did not agree with the hon. Member for Honiton as to what was to be referred to the proposed Select Committee. The right hon. Gentleman held that nothing ought to be referred, but whether or not there was a contract between the Government and the competing architects, and whether, in spite of the admitted failure of the Judges to make a binding award, there was not that amount of legal obligation upon the Government which would compel them to adopt, not the recommendations of the Judges, but a certain portion of them with which he happened to agree. The right hon. Gentleman
 341 342
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  in reply, said, his attention had been called to the way in which the works connected with the Ornamental Water in the Regent's Park was being carried out. There was a difference of opinion as to whether it was likely to be dangerous to children who might slip into the water; but the question was under his consideration, and if it should appear that any serious danger was likely to occur, he should consider whether some protection could not be afforded.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether paragraph 165, of the Queen's Regulations, 1868, "the Commander-in-Chief will in all cases select the senior officer who may have qualified for promotion to the higher grade," will in all cases be complied with?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg also to ask the Secretary of State for India, in reference to his statement that a room had been provided in quarters in India to be used by the Protestant soldiers for reading and prayer, but that the Order in question did not apply to Catholic soldiers as they had not asked for anything of the kind and were not likely to do so, Whether he can state what applications had been made on the subject by Protestant soldiers; and, whether there will be any objection on the part of the Military authorities on the ground of discipline or the regulations of the service to Catholic soldiers in Her Majesty's service signing petitions or making other written application asking for similar privileges?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought that the inhabitants of London had great reason to complain of the conduct of Government with regard to this Bill. From the first moment of its introduction they had sought to obtain from the Secretary of State for the Home Department some statement of the grounds upon which he proposed the imposition of this additional burden upon them; but he had steadily and sedulously refused to give this information, and even the statement he had now made was inadequate in the last degree. The House ought not, on a mere statement from a Minister of the Crown, without any inquiry being made, to pass a Bill of this kind imposing special taxation. What was the history of that measure? He believed that it originated in a mere panic, arising from events which alarmed the Secretary of State and the public. But what were the facts? He found from the Census that the population of London had increased at the rate of about 18 per cent in ten years; and on turning to the
 346 347
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  begged to take part in the discussion as representing a class which not yet been heard—namely, the entire art-loving public. He had devoted many hours to the study of the designs when they were exhibited at Lincoln's Inn, and he felt justified in begging the hon. Member not to press his Motion to a division. He was satisfied that the appointment of a Committee would only lead to further complication. It would unsettle the little progress that had already been made, and come to no result, working out, as it would have to do, against the grain, within the few hours still left of the; active life of the last old Parliament, a most perplexed problem. Those who had preceded him in the debate had spoken as if the question would only lie between four given architects; but, in fact, if it were re-opened at all, it must be re-opened completely, and the claims, not of those four only, but of all the eleven would have to be considered. His hon. Friend had dropped the name of Mr. Brandon. Well, the grandiose design of that architect would have to be considered, so would the striking one contributed by Mr. Seddon; so also would the design which all who were not lawyer, but experts in architecture,
 335
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that this matter had been under the consideration of the Government, and they had come to the conclusion that they could not treat it as an isolated question. The whole subject must be dealt with if any question were raised respecting the exemption of charitable property. The subject would give rise to a great deal of discussion, and it would be impossible to deal with it in the present Session.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : Has any fresh inquiry been taken up by the Commissioners within the last two months that has tended to prolong their labours?
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If his attention has been drawn to the fact that Circular 900, December 15,1866, has practically withdrawn from the Officers of Depot Battalions the privileges of exchange and promotion by purchase which up to that date they enjoyed; and, if so, whether it is proposed to make any compensation for the loss they have thus sustained?
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that about ten years ago he brought the question under the attention of the House, and the difficulty with which he had been met was the age before which men were required to enter the Civil Service. But he thought they ought not for a moment to contemplate reducing the term of service in the army for the purpose of carrying out the scheme. In the War Department discharged soldiers were specially qualified for employment in consequence of the peculiar training they had undergone.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If the Treasury have the power to authorize the granting of Loans to Grand Juries on the security of the County Cess for the erection of Militia Stores and Barracks; and, if not, whether it is the intention of the Government to apply to Parliament for such powers?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would request the hon. Member to move for a Return on the subject.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that the experiments at Tottenham had been carried on by the local authorities who had sent him a letter, from which he gathered that the experiments had not been so satisfactory as his hon. Friend seemed to suppose. He thought he should be going out of his way if he were to express an opinion on the subject. Two experiments had been made by different persons, and, as far as he could gather, they had not been so successful as experiments made with lime. At present the fertilizing properties of the residuum had not been ascertained. No Report on the subject had come before the Government.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, he was not aware until his attention had been called to the matter a short time ago, of the existence of the state of things to which his hon. Friend referred. He had no control over the City Police; but the Metropolitan Police had seized a very large number of dogs, and great difficulty had been experienced in disposing of them.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the clerk to the justices at Leominster had written to him to explain that there had been no conviction before them of boys for playing at cricket on Sundays. A great number of boys had been in the habit of playing at cricket in a field of growing grass, and some were brought before the magistrates and fined 1 s. 305 Hansard,
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in moving "That this Bill be now read a second time," said, in the course of the autumn Session the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Viscount Enfield) put some Questions to him respecting the numbers of the police, to which he replied that it was manifest that the police were shorthanded, and that they were overworked, and that it was desirable that they should have that amount of rest without which no force could remain efficient. At that time the men in the police force had only one day's rest in every five or six weeks, or even less, while their duties at the same time were most arduous and difficult. It was under these circumstances that he had determined to add 1,000 men and 120 officers to the force—an addition that did not raise its numbers to the same proportion to the population and the acreage which it bore to them when it was first instituted in 1830. At that time there were only twenty acres to each constable, whereas there were now fifty-seven acres to each constable. The population of the metropolis in 1830 was only 1,496,000, whereas it was at the present time somewhere about 3,506,000. The police force consisted at its first establishment of 3,300 men, officered by two Commissioners; but in 1856 Sir Richard Mayne became the sole Commissioner with two Assistant Commissioners. In 1856 the number of buildings in the metropolis was 368,000; but that number had since I been increased to 472,000. The force for the protection of the Thames and of the dockyards was a separate body, and was not paid out of the police rate. Great difficulties had been experienced at one
 344 s. s. s. d. d. d. d. d. d 345 d.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought that as, according to the Instructions, utility was to be more regarded than ornament, the Government ought to have selected Mr. Barry as the architect. In the opinion of the architectural profession, Messrs. Shaw and Pownall were the Judges most to be relied upon, and, sitting as assessors, their opinion could not but exercise great weight with the other Judges. He was sorry that hon. Members had not had an opportunity of inspecting the designs before being called upon to say whether the decision of the Judges was correct. He would not pretend to say whether the design which had been adopted would prove satisfactory to the country; but with re-
 339
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware that the Commissioner of the City Police has, under the 18th section of the Metropolis Streets Act, fixed the 1st of July next as the date for detaining dogs unprovided with muzzles, instead of the 22nd of June last, the date adopted by the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police under the same section; whether such want of unity of action between the Police authorities is not a serious evil, and, whether he will address a remonstrance to the City authorities as to the folly and impolicy of their proceedings in this respect?
 MR. CLIVE : I am not aware that anything new has taken place since that time. The delay, as I have already stated, is almost entirely due to the voluminous nature of the Schedules.
 MR. CLIVE : The delay, where there has been delay in London, has been entirely caused by the necessity for several of the Commissioners sitting in Dublin, there to get up the statistics. The Report has been completed, and it is not necessary for me to go into the subjects that have been investigated and the subjects that have not been investigated; for none remain to be investigated. The Schedules of this Report—the draft of which I hold in my hand—are very voluminous and complicated, and require extensive examination and close revision. That examination and revision have been going on within the last few weeks in Dublin. That accounts for the Report not being issued, and there is reason to hope that in less than a fortnight the Report will be in the hands of Members. Two more sittings are all that will he necessary; the Commissioners will be in London to-morrow, and in a fortnight from that time I have reason to expect the Report and Schedules will be presented to hon. Members.
 MR. CLIVE  added: The Report has not been conclusively adopted, and there must be one or two more sittings of the Commissioners, but there is hardly anything to be done.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that it appeared, by a recent Report from the Board of Works in Ireland, that there was no power to advance money for the erection of Militia Stores and Barracks by presentments from the Grand Juries in Ireland, as there was for the erection of Court Houses. He was not aware that any inconvenience had arisen from this disability; but as he found it was a matter of considerable interest and importance, he should inquire whether it would not be possible to amend the law in that respect.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that he was not aware what were the important Public Records to which the Question of the hon. Member referred. He was informed that there were no Records relating to Ireland in the Record Office, but there were entries in the Rolls of Chancery and other Courts, which it had been proposed to transcribe, in order to their being deposited in the Dublin Office. This was merely a question of expense, and might be postponed until the other questions relative to the Irish Records, were decided by the Master of the Rolls.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, stated that the Commission appointed to inquire into the alleged grievances of the Clerks in the Customs had concluded a portion of their inquiry, and he hoped that the Report would be in the hands of the Treasury before the close of the Session.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he was glad the question had been brought before the House. It was the abominable practice which prevailed on both sides of the House of placing nil the small situations in the gift of the Secretary of the Treasury at the disposal of Members of the House, for distribution among their constituents that prevented the employment of deserving men of the class referred to. He believed that among the many thousands of persons in the employment of the Post Office not one discharged soldier was to be found, although there were many quite capable of discharging the duties. He trusted the Government would take the matter into their serious consideration.
 MR. EATON  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, If his attention has been drawn to a statement lately published calling in question the accuracy of the Board of Trade Returns of Foreign Ribbons imported into this country; what is the system pursued by the Customs House authorities in order to ascertain the net weight of silk and satin ribbons imported; and, whether the Returns of those articles, as published by the Statistical Department of the Board of Trade are to be looked upon as substantially correct or not?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he would object to lay upon the Table of the House, a Return from the time when the late Lord Chancellor Brougham became Lord Chancellor of the number of Barristers who have received Patents of Precedency and Patents constituting them of Council to the Crown, commonly called Queen's Counsel or King's Counsel, distinguishing in such Return the number of Barristers receiving such Patents respectively during the holding of the Great Seal by each Lord Chancellor respectively, and stating the date of the call to the Bar of each such Banister?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he saw no objection to the police having a holiday once in every seven days, but he thought the money required should not come out of the pockets of his constituents, but from the Consolidated Fund. The Act referred to by the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) fixed the police rate in the metropolis at 6 d. 351
 MR. WINTERBOTHAM  said, he did not attribute to the Government any object but the appointment of the best architect they could find; but he considered, at the same time, that, desiring to get rid of a very complex subject, they chose rather hastily to cut the knot, and did not show the patience necessary for untying it. He should not have objected if, in the first instance, the Government had appointed an architect and given no reasons for the appointment; but it was important that strict
 337 338
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that this question stood in a different position from any other question relating to public buildings. The new Law Courts were not to be erected at the cost of ordinary Votes of this House but mainly from balances of Fee Funds and charges specially imposed upon suitors; and the Bill would never have passed had not the responsibility and authority to carry on the work been expressly given to a Royal Commission conjointly with the Treasury. Yet no sooner did they begin to take any action than the House of Commons stepped in and interfered with that responsibility. First, his hon. Friend the Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Bentinck) carried a Resolution increasing the number of architects, then the hon. Member for Belfast (Mr. Lanyon) forced the Government to add to the Judges; and the result is the unsatisfactory and inconclusive award of these gentlemen. At the same time, as practically the Judges had bracketed two architects as equal, he regretted that Government had not made a joint appointment, but he was not at all prepared to advise the House of Commons for the third time to step in and interfere with their responsibility; and he trusted the matter would be left as it stood, and would not be relegated to a Select Committee. He hoped the suggestion to have two buildings would not be listened to, and as to putting the Common Law Courts in one, and the Equity Courts in another half-a-mile off, his hon. Friend had probably not considered that perhaps the distinction between Common Law and Equity Courts would not last another Parliament.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he also wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Government intend taking, during the present Session, any and what steps for rendering available to the Irish public the numerous and very important Public Records relating to Ireland, which are preserved at the Record Office, London, and to which the attention of the Government was directed four years since by the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant?
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Commission appointed to inquire into the grievances complained of by the Clerks in the various Departments of the Customs have concluded their labours; and, whether the result of the comparison which they have instituted between the duties performed by the Clerks in the Departments of Account in the Customs and Inland Revenue Departments respectively has been such as to prove that the duties performed by the Clerks in the former are as arduous and important as those performed by the Clerks in the latter Department; and, if so, whether it is proposed to place the Clerks in the several Offices of Account in the Customs on the same footing as to salary as the Clerks in the Inland Revenue?
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, The number of Lieutenant Colonels who have commanded the 86th Regiment since January, 1862; the number of different Stations at which the 86th Regiment has been quartered during the last three years, including removals at the Cape of Good Hope and Mauritius; whether it be true that the sum of five shillings a-day, allowed for sixteen days to the Officers of the 86th Regiment on arrival at Algoa Bay, to compensate for unavoidable expenses and loss of mess, has been since stopped out of the pay of the Officers by Orders from home; whether the Colonial allowance of 1 s. d.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  seconded the Amendment. He cordially concurred in that portion of the speech of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in which
 348 d. 349
 MR. LOCKE  said, he rose for the purpose of pointing out that this Bill was not a just and proper one, for it departed from the principle of the 4 & 5  Will. d.
 MR. PIM  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is his intention to lay upon the Table, before the end of the present Session, the Bill for extending to Ireland the principle of the Local Government (England) Act, 1858, and the General Police and Improvement (Scotland) Act, 1862?
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  thought that this was a case, of all others, for a Select Committee. The decision of the Government was entirely unsatisfactory to the House and to the public out-of-doors, and it was remarkable that not one hon. Member who had spoken concurred in the appointment of Mr. Street. Messrs. Shaw and Pownall, who were called in as surveyors, were desired to go through the detailed plans. They were eminent and honourable men, whose characters were above suspicion, and who had no prejudice in favour of one candidate over another; and their judgment in favour of Mr. Barry, on the score that he had complied with the requisitions, ought to have been conclusive. Mr. Street was only entitled to be mentioned with regard to elevation. He could not help saying that when certain details had been sent to the competing architects, and when elevation was the condition placed last, it was a hard case that the Government should finally say to Mr. Barry, "Although you have been most successful in that which we principally demanded, you shall not have the execution of this great work." The leading architects would not have entered into a competition for the mere  bagatelle 340
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to a report stating that the Leominster Magistrates have recently fined some boys 1 s.
 MR. VANDERBYL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether a Notice which was given by his Department to terminate, as on the 1st of April last, the monopoly which has for many years existed, and still prevails, in the supply of Malt Liquors to the Troops at Shorncliffe Camp has been withdrawn; and whether it is intended to continue such monopoly?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether he will lay upon the Table a statement of the particulars and results of the experiments in the Refining of Sugar conducted at Cologne previous to the Convention of November 1864, the same having been already published by authority in Holland?
 MR. LOWE  said, he wished, in the first place, to state that he had not the honour of the acquaintance of Mr. Barry, except with respect to this matter, and he had no intention of expressing himself or of asking the House to express any opinion upon the respective merits of the different Gentlemen whose names had been connected with this subject. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken (Mr. Gladstone) that it would be most improper to re-open this question from its commencement by appointing a Committee to inquire into it. The only charge that he intended to make against the Government was that under very difficult circumstances they had missed their way, and had not adopted the best course which was open to them. They had put too violent a construction upon the failure of the Judges to make an award, and they seemed to think that the whole proceedings were rendered void  ab initio, 331 332 ab initio, cy près, 333
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he had the misfortune to be one of the Judges of these designs who were appointed to render what assistance they could to the Government; and he should feel it unbecoming in him to express any opinion as to the architects except this, that many of them manifested very great merits. His right hon. Friend who had just addressed the House, had taken an entirely different view of the duties of the Judges, and of the meaning of their award, from that which the Judges themselves took. No doubt it was a main and leading point in the Instructions to the architects that they were to attend to the important uses of the building, and that so far as these might conflict with architectural beauty the internal accommodation was to be preferred. But it was never considered that the competition was to be decided by reference to internal matters only. On such a principle, there would have been no elevations wanted at all. The contract of the Government with the architects was to submit their plans for a consideration of their relative merits to the appointed Judges, who were in no sense agents of the Government except in the event of their reporting in favour of one particular competitor; and if they failed to report one competitor as better than all the rest they had no power to bind the Government by any opinion which they might have expressed, and in common sense, as well as in law, the matter was wholly at large. To argue that the void award which had been made took out of the hands of the Government the responsibility of making the appointment seemed to him perfectly wild and extravagant, and it might involve the greatest possible injustice to other architects whose names the Judges had not mentioned. You could not for a particular purpose detach a particular opinion from its context, and adduce it for a purpose for which the Judges never brought it forward; you could not base anything upon the unauthoritative expres-
 334
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether his attention has been called to the way in which the work connected with the Ornamental Water in the Regent's Park is being carried out, and whether the gradients have not been made at an angle extremely dangerous in the event of any persons, especially children, slipping into the water?
 MR. GREGORY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, a statement had been made to the effect that the population of the City of London was only 112,000; but he wished to point out that there were daily in the City some 600,000 or 700,000 persons, who had to be protected or looked after by the police. He also remarked that nothing was contributed to the support of the City Police Fund out of the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. TITE  said, that the Government having selected eleven of the best architects in England—he might say in Europe—to enter into a competition for designs for the new Courts, it was a great misfortune that they did not find themselves in a position to adhere faithfully to the bargain which was made. He had the highest possible opinion of the four gentlemen whose names had been introduced into this discussion. They were an honour to the country. It was much to be regretted that some architects had not been placed upon the Commission, which was composed almost entirely of lawyers. After a long discussion, the names of two of the competing architects—Messrs. Street and Barry—had been bracketed together. It was very unfortunate that when the Judges had bracketed two gentlemen together, as of equal merit, one excelling in interior arrangement and the other in the exterior design, and when a course had been agreed upon acceptable to those two gentlemen, that course had not been carried out. The right hon. Gentleman opposite, as a man of honour and desiring to act fairly between them—the system of joint architects having been objected to—gave the erection of the National Gallery to Mr. Barry; but he adjudged the enormous prize of the erection of the new Palace of Justice to Mr. Street. On account of this great inequality, it was most desirable, he thought, that some compro-
 336
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he believed that the failure in the prevention of the Clerkenwell explosion was due rather to mismanagement than to any inadequacy in the numbers of the police. What was wanted was organization, not increase in the force, and even if increase were required, it should not be made without full inquiry for the satisfaction of the ratepayers?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he should support the Motion. He considered that the Government did not look after discharged soldiers as they ought to do. He deemed it desirable that Government should endeavour to employ to the end of their lives men who had served out their time in the army.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  in rising to move, That it is expedient to employ in Government situations non-commissioned officers and privates discharged from the Army with good character, said, he laid claim to no originality in making such a proposal. He found that a Royal Commission which had sat in 1861, and had been presided over by the noble Lord the the Member for the East Riding (Lord Hotham) had reported as follows:—
 "It might also be a great encouragement to recruiting and to good conduct while serving, if a preference were given to pensioners discharged with good characters, in filling up such situations
 315 "In the year 1855, in consequence of the war with Russia, men of all ages, in large numbers, were daily discharged from the service, disabled by wounds, or from broken health and other causes unfitted for military duty. Those men experienced the greatest difficulty, almost amounting to impossibility, in obtaining any employment to enable them to support themselves and families. The arrangements of the public service did not permit them to receive pensions in any degree adequate to their support, nor was it desirable on sound social principles that they should be placed beyond the general necessity of industrial occupation. In cases of limited service the pensions awarded were generally from 6 d. d. s. 316 s. d. s, s. s. s. 317
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  explained that he had said, or, at any rate, meant to say, that only thirty-five of the Corps of Commissionaires had been employed in Government situations. He did not refer to the employment of soldiers in the War Department, beyond appealing to the right hon. Baronet to make a statement on the subject.
 MR. BAINES  said he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Government have come to a decision as to the exemption of schools and charities from the recently declared liability to the payment of poor rates, on which subject the present and the late Government have received important representations, and to which they have promised attention?
 MR. POWELL  said, he hoped the House would abide by the decision to which it had already come with reference to the site of the new Courts. The often contemplated project for the fusion of law and equity would be likely to be indefinitely postponed if the new Chancery and Common Law Courts were to be kept separate in the way which the hon. Member who had just spoken suggested. The proposed Committee would, in his opinion, find itself wholly unable to solve the problem which would be submitted to it. If they selected the design of Mr. Street, a truly noble design would be chosen, in which, according to the opinion of Judges, members of the Bar, attorneys, and suitors, all the requirements for Courts of Law would be well provided for; but the Committee, if unfit to decide the problem proposed to be submitted to them, would be still more unfit to determine the question of law, and he thought that the House should abide by the decision of the Law Officers of the Crown.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the House would not take upon itself the responsibility of rejecting this Bill. An increase of the police force had become necessary, not on account of Fenian outrages, but on account of the enormous increase of the metropolis, and for the protection of life and property, and the question rather was out of what fund they should be paid. The new regulation under which a holiday of one day in the week would be given to the force had met with general approval. It would doubtless conduce to the efficiency of the force, and would induce better men to enter it; but its operation was to require a certain increase of the number of police. The Treasury only paid the same proportion of the
 352
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, as this Question refers to an arrangement made by me three years ago, I had, perhaps, better answer it. On the resignation of Sir John Fisher, the Chief Surgeon to the Metropolitan Police, a question was raised as to the necessity or expediency of continuing the prohibition of private practice. I consulted Sir John Fisher upon it, and his opinion was that it would be advantageous to the police that the Chief Surgeon should have hospital practice; but he thought extensive private practice would interfere with the duties of the office. I acted on this opinion. The office was first offered to Mr. Pollok, an eminent surgeon, of St. George's Hospital, who had, besides, extensive private practice. He was unwilling to relinquish this, and therefore declined the appointment. It was then offered to and accepted by Mr. Holmes, an assistant-surgeon at St. George's Hospital,
 312
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought it would require a good deal more than had been stated by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) to induce the House to reject the Bill. The measure was only to provide for the additional charge rendered necessary by an increase in the number of police which everybody admitted to be necessary. It was no fault of the Government that the Bill was brought on at so late a period of the Session; and as to having a Select Committee to inquire into the police system, no necessity for it had been proved. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets had not stated any facts to warrant the rejection of the Bill, nor was there in his (Sir James Fergusson's) opinion any ground for the attack which had been made upon Sir Richard Mayne. The police force called forth the admiration of the whole country, and much credit was duo to the Commissioners for their efficiency. As to drill, the men were only drilled one hour a week, and that only during the summer months; and, as to the increase of the vagrant class, surely if there were such an increase the number of the police should also be increased.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Hereford, What progress has been made with the inquiry entrusted to the Irish Church Commissioners; has the inquiry been concluded, and, if not, what subjects have been investigated, and what yet remain to be investigated; if the inquiry has been concluded, why the Report, which the House was led to expect would be presented in the early
 324
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he will lay upon the Table of the House, a Copy of the Letter of Archbishop Leahy and Bishop Dorey, addressed to him during the present month in relation to the negotiations opened by the Government with the Irish Catholic prelates for the granting of
 314
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he could only repeat the Answer which he had given to a similar Question on a former occasion. The greatest care and tenderness had been exercised towards existing interests, but there was no intention to make such compensation as the right hon. and gallant Gentleman indicated.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that the hon. and gallant Baronet the Member for Berkshire (Sir Charles Russell) had taken a very judicious course in the interest of the soldier in pressing the question on the consideration of the House. He could not doubt that the more extensive adoption of the principle of employing discharged soldiers of good character in the Civil Service, would be a great encouragement to good conduct in the ranks of the army and a legitimate reward to those who left the service with good characters. He
 322
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, on the Monday after the review I had a conversation with General Lindsay with regard to the occurrences to which the Question of the noble Lord relates. Since that time General Lindsay has been absent from
 311
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that if the hon. and gallant Member would refer to the paragraph in question, he would find it applied only to the cases of the promotion of officers who had neglected to pass the necessary examination. He had no reason to doubt that the Commander-in-Chief would carry out the regulation.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he would give the best Answer to the seven Questions that he could. The number of Lieutenant Colonels who had commanded the 86th Regiment in the term specified was five; and the Stations at which it had been quartered in the last three years were Gibraltar, the Cape, and the Mauritius. It was not the case that the allowance of 5 s. 303 s. d.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that the Notice given to terminate the monopoly in the supply of Malt Liquors to the Troops at Shorncliffe had not been
 302
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was glad to have elicited that explanation, because it would be undesirable that an impression should go forth that only thirty-five soldiers were employed. He held in his hand a statement of the ages at which soldiers were taken into the public service as messengers in the several Departments, employment which he was happy to say was not limited to the army, but had also been extended to the naval service. In the War Department no less than thirty-three old soldiers were employed, and he was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) express a general concurrence in the propriety of such appointments, for they not only conferred a boon upon the well-conducted soldier, but also tended very much to the economy of the public service. There were no doubt many duties discharged by clerks in the public offices for which soldiers upon leaving the army would be unfit, but on the other hand, there were many functions for which they were well suited, and they had performed such functions with entire satisfaction in the Department where he was best able to form a judgment. He therefore saw no reason why the same system should not be introduced in the other Departments.
 MR. PEASE  said, he had been told by Mr. Street that he had done him an injustice, when speaking on this subject on a former occasion, by representing that he had exceeded the estimate by £300,000, instead of £193,000. Mr. Street was entitled to the benefit of the correction. The truth was that the cost had been put very much out of view, and almost all the architects except Mr. Waterhouse had greatly exceeded the original estimate. Mr. Barry was out by £330,000, while Mr. Waterhouse was only £2,000 in excess of the estimate. Whatever celebrity Mr. Street possessed as an architect was in connection with church architecture; but this was not the style they required in the Law Courts. They wanted no "dim religious light" to be introduced there, but that the light of justice should illuminate the judgments to be delivered there.
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  said, he was not sanguine about such a scheme inducing a different class of men to enlist; but he believed it would be valuable in inducing men in the army to behave themselves, and to educate themselves so as to be qualified for appointments in the Civil Service on their discharge. Where soldiers were employed in some of the Departments at the Horse Guards he believed that the duties were performed most satisfactorily,
 321 s.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that he thought the most satisfactory way of dealing with the Question of the hon. Gentleman would be to forward a copy of it to the Governor General, and call his attention to the matter.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, the Papers alluded to by the hon. Gentleman had been received from Bombay. They formed three very large volumes, which it would be impossible to produce to the House in full; but Mr. Lushington, the late Commissioner of Police at Bombay, had now the volumes in his possession, and had undertaken to mark the despatches which it would be desirable to produce. He might inform the hon. Gentleman that he had written a despatch by the last mail to India, with respect to the question of extending the grant of the Indian Mutiny Medal. He had resolved that it should be given to all persons who had performed service against the mutineers or rebels, including amongst the latter all who had made common cause with them. The word persons would include Police, and he hoped the settlement of the question would be satisfactory.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said. In reply, that no publication of the details of these experiments had been sanctioned by the Commission; nor was anyone authorized by them to
 306
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : It is not the fact, Sir, that the shipping of the commerce
 310 d.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  in reply, said, his attention had been called to this statement by the hon. Member for Coventry, and he had, in consequence, caused inquiries to be made at the Customs. He found that the Customs authorities obtained their information with regard to silks, as in the case of other articles free of duty, from the person who cleared the goods for the merchant and passed the entry. The net weight was taken from the gross weight, allowance being made for tare. When duty was charged this computation was, of course, accurate, and in the case of velvets, where the same method of packing continued, the Returns were still very correct. They were so, too, when made by some one acquainted
 309
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the thanks of the army were due to the hon. and gallant Member for Berkshire (Sir Charles Russell) for bringing this subject forward, because there was an acknowledged difficulty on the part of soldiers, even when discharged with the best character, in obtaining employment of any kind. In the course of last week a soldier formerly in his own regiment, who possessed admirable business qualifications, and had been discharged with a first class character, had come to him in a state of absolute starvation and had implored him to procure him some employment. If the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member were assented to, it would prove one of the greatest boons that could be conferred upon the non-commissioned officers and the privates of the army, who at the present time formed a very superior class of men.
 MR. ADAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the Correspondence, moved for on the 22nd March 1867, relative to the grant of the Medal to Troops and Police engaged in suppressing the Mutiny and Rebellion in the Bombay Presidency during the years 1857, 1858, 1859, &c. will be laid upon the Table; and, whether, taking into consideration the services performed by the Troops and Police so engaged, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to order the Grant of the Medal to them?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that the sixteen cases mentioned in the Question, in which the prisoners had been
 370
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, some of the prisoners were insane previous to apprehension, and others became insane afterwards. Persons who committed such crimes were often not in the most sane state of mind.
 SIR HENRY WINSTON-BARRON  said, he was astonished that any hon. Member should oppose so simple a Motion. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Hotham) was a most punctual and painstaking Member of the House himself; but that was no good reason why he should object to the adoption of a rule by which mistakes in voting might be avoided.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Baronet would withdraw his Motion. Its operation, if carried, would, he was afraid, be something like that which was said to have followed the invention of life buoys, when the sailors were constantly falling overboard, knowing that the means of safety were at hand.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that so far as he could understand the case, the facts were these—A man named Adjouri had creditors in England and partners in Turkey. He became bankrupt, and the creditors in Manchester thought that they had a claim upon his Turkish property. In order to enforce this claim they instituted a suit against the partners in the Mixed Court at Aleppo. The Turkish Government interposed, and by a Vizerial order stopped the proceedings on the ground that the case ought not to have been taken into the Mixed Court at all, but to have been tried by the ordinary tribunals. This was unquestionably a sufficient ground for the interference, supposing it to be proved that the Mixed Court had no jurisdiction. Whether, in that view of the case, the Turkish authorities were, right or wrong was a very difficult and intricate question of law. It had been several times referred to the Law Officers of the Crown, before whom every facility had been given to the parties to lay their case. It was not very easy to ascertain the precise facts on which the legality or illegality of the proceedings of the Turkish Government depended. Very lately, by the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown, he had written to Constantinople to obtain some fresh information, which might assist them materially in coming to a decision. Everything turned upon this—was the Court qualified to deal with the case, or was it not? If not, the Turkish local authorities had a perfect right to do what they did. If they were competent to try the case, the Native authorities had no right to interfere, and there was ground for addressing representations to them on the subject. The delay which had arisen had been occasioned partly by the complication of the case itself, and partly, also, from the statement, as first laid before the Law Officers, not arriving in a shape on which it was possible to form a conclusive opinion. He did not know any other course that could have been taken than that a legal question should be settled by legal advice. Certainly, there was no evidence of any improper influence being brought to bear upon the Turkish authorities. Nothing of that kind had been stated to him. It was an assertion that parties were very apt to
 389
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he hoped his hon. Friend who had just spoken would not think it betokened any want of respect to him if he said that, after listening to the remarks he had made, they left on his mind the impression that he had not so far entered into the question as to become aware of the difficulties with which it was surrounded. He thought his hon. Friend, with the benevolence which characterized him, had taken the philanthropic view of the matter; he had been shocked by an apparent anomaly in the existing law, and he had rushed to a practical conclusion with a rapidity too great to allow of his guidance being considered a safe one for the decision of the House upon the question. If it was not being too bold, he thought his hon. Friend would see that he had not used the words lightly, and that he had something to say in support of them. He did not intend to approach the subject in the spirit of partizanship—political partizanship was unknown in connection with it, but in the spirit of official or any other partizanship. It was not a matter to be decided by any considerations of this kind, but they must consider broadly and fairly the right course to pursue. On that occa-
 395 396 397 398 399
 MR. OTWAY  expressed his regret that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Colchester (Mr. Karslake), should have endeavoured to count out the House during a discussion on the proposition to confer the franchise on 29,000 of his fellow-countrymen. It seemed an improper proceeding, too, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, after making the Motion for counting the House, should immediately run from his place, and not return to it, to hear the comments which were sure to be made on such conduct. With regard to the question under discussion, he observed that at present there were only three classes of persons deprived of the franchise—paupers, criminals, and Revenue officers; and it was threfore incumbent on the Government to show why this degradation was placed on the last-mentioned body of
 405
 THE EARL OF MAYO  denied that he had ever said that the 12th Lancers were received with execration; he had said that they were received with some hisses.
 MR. ESMONDE  supported the Bill.
 418 Laughter.
 MR. SERJEANT BARRY , in replying, reminded the House that, in the matter of the Westminster election, the House had passed a Resolution condemnatory of the employment of military at elections. It had been stated that the 12th Lancers, who had acted on the occasion of the Dungarvan riots, were hooted while forming part of the escort on the entry of the Prince and Princess of Wales into Dublin. The noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland had accused him of bad taste, because he had mentioned that circumstance in a former debate. The noble Lord's explanation of the circumstance was as extraordinary as that which he gave of the sense in which he had used the words "levelling up." [The Earl of MAYO: I never used the words.] Well, it was as extraordinary as the noble Lord's explanation of the sense in which he had used the words "elevation, and not confiscation."
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, as this Bill originally stood, it would have been
 420 pro formâ
 MR. LABOUCHERE  contended that the question was one of too much importance to be discussed at so late an hour as one o'clock, and moved the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the occupants of the Treasury Bench ought to give the House some reason for the mode of proceeding adopted by them in the present instance. It could not be necessary at that hour of the morning to surprise the House with such a Motion, unless an election were necessary within two or three days. The Report of the Chairman of the Bristol Election Committee was to the ef-
 422
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had spoken with his usual fluency, had not adduced a single argument to induce the House to postpone the issue of the Writ. The hon. and learned Gentleman assumed that corrupt practices extensively prevailed at the last election for Bristol; but had not adduced one fact in support of his assumption.
 MR. LOCKE  observed, that the commission of every improper act which could occur at an election—bribery, corruption, treating, and personation—was mentioned in the Report; and he therefore thought that the House should not be in a desperate hurry to issue the Writ. They should have the opportunity of considering how the Bristol election had been conducted. He was at a loss to know why the Ministerial Benches should now be so well filled, and why there was now such a great desire for the issue of the Writ. He would sit to any hour, and move those Motions which were necessary to save the honour of the House on this occasion, when such a surprise was attempted by the other side.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought the sudden proceeding on the other side required explanation. The Report of the Committee showed that corrupt practices did not extensively prevail in Bristol, and when a Report of that sort was presented it was the practice to issue
 423
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  considered that the Writ should have been moved at the commencement of the proceedings, not at the rising of the House. There were twenty-four cases of bribery proved, and a strong case had been made out for making an example in such a case. He was disappointed at the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, as he thought he would have acceded to the Motion to adjourn the debate. There were good reasons to postpone the issue of the Writ until the evidence was before the House; and there was no time when it was more necessary to give a warning to the new constituencies.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he could see nothing to warrant the suspension of the Writ; but the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Ayrton) having expressed his determination to employ his great physical strength in preventing the decision of the question to-night, and misapprehension having been said to exist on the part of some hon. Members, he thought the best course was to agree to the adjournment.
 MR. KINNAIRD  remarked, that though it was true the contributions to the gaols were not so large for the Nonconformist body as they were for the Roman Catholic portion of the population, the principle was alike the same in each case. The gradual addition to the public expenditure was worthy of serious attention, and he believed that all that was necessary in this case was to resort to voluntary efforts, which had been found successful in so many other directions, and which, if adopted, would put an end to the continual squabbles on all hands for payment from State funds.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the hon. and learned Baronet must remember the legal maxim,  Vigilantibus non dormientibus sub- 386 veniunt leges.
 MR. COWPER  said, that as steps were being taken for intersecting the western portion of Rotten Row by a carriage road, and apprehending that that intersection might increase the inconvenience already existing from the crowding of that part of Rotten Row where persons had been accustomed to ride, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there will be any extension of or addition to the Ride in Rotten Row to compensate for the interference with the Ride, occasioned by the carriage road now being made across Rotten Row near Kensington Gardens?
 LORD CREMORNE  remarked that in the county which he had the honour to represent a case occurred where a man was killed in consequence, not of the presence of the soldiers, but of their absence. He was afraid that that circumstance would prevent him from voting in support of the present Bill.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  seconded the Motion; and said that it was very gratifying to those who had laboured in this cause to find that the magistrates of the country generally, aided by the Acts
 376
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he hoped the House would not agree to the Resolution. The only effect of such a Motion would be to point out to the country that mistakes were made from want of attention which were anything but creditable either to the individual Members or to the House. Why was not the House told the names of the Members who had been in the wrong? How they came to be in the wrong box? Whether they were in the House when the Question was put? It argued very little for the competence of Members if, when they were told "Ayes to the right, Noes to the left," they did not know which way to go. If hon. Members were asleep, or on the terrace smoking, or reading newspapers in the vicinity of the House, or, in short, doing anything except what they ought—attending to the Business of the House in their places—that was their own fault, and the matter was, in his opinion, not of such importance as to require special legislation. It would be much better to go on in the old paths, and not draw too much attention to their faults.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the £6,000 taken this year would be absorbed by the new roads and lodges to the south and east of the Memorial.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, the Government did not contemplate this year making any addition to Rotten Row in consequence of the road that would shortly be made across it in the direction
 372
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. and learned Baronet has alluded to me, and as I should be very sorry to be suspected of any want of courtesy to the House, I must say that once or twice I was on the point of rising, but was prevented addressing the House by reason of the fact that other hon. Members were the first to catch Mr. Speaker's eye. I should, if I had had an opportunity, have given an uncompromising opposition to the Motion of the hon. and learned Baronet, which would have, as it appears to me, produced this effect: we should have had two divisions on every subject—there would be a division and a revision of a division in each case. That practice would create many mistakes. I think it is always unwise to alter our rules of procedure without grave consideration, and I think that in this case we have not sufficient data upon which to base such considerations. I do not think we are entirely acquainted with the motives which occasion these apparent mistakes. I have sometimes ascribed them to a desire in hon. Members for change of society; and on many occasions it has been the case that hon. Members going into the wrong Lobby have been in a state of some social excitement. As I think also that an
 387
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to Older. The hon. Member had on a previous occasion addressed the House on the Question that the Speaker do leave the Chair, when the Secretary to the Treasury moved the adjournment of the debate.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had not the slightest wish to curtail the hon. Member's observations on the Bill; but he had a most distinct recollection that the hon. Gentleman did address some observations to the House on the Question of the Speaker leaving the Chair. Until an Amendment was moved, the hon. Gentleman could not again speak.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he only wished to be in Order, having no desire whatever to curtail the privileges of the hon. Member. The Bill had been read a second time without any observations on the part of the Government or by any hon. Member; and, as the House might recollect, it was by a mere accident that he had not been present when the Motion for the second reading was made. Looking to the really important character of this measure, he regretted there was not a more full attendance of Members when it came on for discussion. The natural tendency of every mind must be to accede at once to the principle of this Bill; it was only in discussion that doubts arose as to whether it would be desirable to do so. It would have been far more agreeable to his own feelings to support the Bill, which was intended to confer the franchise on a very meritorious and efficient body of men, to whom the country and the House were very greatly indebted, than to move, as he felt bound to do, that it be committed this day three months. It was of no slight importance that the action of the officers concerned in the collection of the Revenue should be above all imputation as to their motives; that political intrigue and political feeling should be kept entirely out of the question so far as their conduct was concerned that they should be able to, carry on the discipline necessary for the conduct of business, to make changes and removals from one part of the country to another, and direct their officers to take proceedings with reference to the Revenue without regard to political considerations. The original ground for withholding the franchise from officers thus employed was that it would be giving too great power to the Crown; the feeling of those who were in favour of the measure was, that the franchise having been so widely extended, their numbers were now so small in comparison with those of the electors generally that they would have very little weight in an election. He was not disposed to attach much weight to the argument relative to the power of the Crown; but he thought that in the event of the Bill becoming law, if not the Crown, some of the permanent officers of the establishment might have very great power and influence in particular cases. There were certain places where the number of officers who would be affected by the measure was very considerable. In the port of London between 1,700 and 1,800 Custom House officials alone would
 391
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was afraid that some mistake had been made in the record of the proceedings. In resuming the thread of his argument, he had to state that his main objection to this Bill was that these officers were scattered throughout the length and breadth of the land, and upon their reports and representations to their superiors rested the question whether persons should be prosecuted for offences against the laws of the Revenue, so that there was in their hands virtually the control of the prosecutions. That being the case, it must be evident to every one that
 392 393
 MR. MONK  rose to a point of Order, and asked that the record of the proceedings on the former occasion should be referred to, which he believed would show that he was in Order in his endeavour to commence the debate upon this Bill.
 MR. MONK  said, he was glad of the opportunity of replying to the speeches of his right hon. Friends the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Member for South Lancashire, in order that he might set them right in respect to the extraordinary error into which they had fallen in common with the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, whose Report had been laid upon the table of the House. The Bill before the House was simply and solely a Franchise Bill, and would merely enable the officers in the Revenue Departments to walk up to the polling-booths and there record their votes; whereas his right hon. Friends took it for granted that they might become political partizans, and act upon the committees of candidates at Parliamentary Elections. His Bill would enable them to do nothing of the sort. It did not repeal the Acts of William and Mary, of William III., and Anne, which made it penal in officers of the Revenue Departments to interfere in elections by
 406 "He opposed the clause on the ground that this Bill was an enfranchising and not a disfranchising measure; and on that ground, if on no other, he should oppose the Amendment. But he also objected to it because it would disfranchise a class of persons as well educated and as competent to exercise the franchise as any body of men in England; and, thirdly, because it would be most invidious at the present moment
 407 Hansard s 408 "That it would be inconvenient to the officers themselves, as subjecting them at times to solicitations for their votes from which they are now free, and plight place them in equivocal and difficult positions." "Invitum qui servat, idem facit occidenti." 409 employés cadit quœstio.
 MR. MONK  observed that the Motion for die adjournment was negatived; but he had subsequently assented to the Motion for going into Committee being negatived.
 MR. MONK , in moving that the Speaker do now leave the Chair, was about to address the House, when
 MR. NEATE  desired to allude to an important and delicate point which had not yet received any attention during the progress of this discussion—the principle of concealing the confessions of prisoners who were sentenced to death. He did not think that it was necessary that the details should be published; but, before the House assented to any proposition for the appointment of Roman Catholic chaplains, it should be distinctly laid down that it was incumbent on the priest to say whether the prisoner had confessed his guilt or not. The peace of mind of twelve honest jurymen, even occasionally of the Judge, was involved in the question, and their minds ought, above all priestly considerations, to be set at rest, so that they might not be afflicted with those unpleasant misgivings which, in the absence of any confession of guilt, would prey upon their minds at the most unseasonable hours. ["Question!"] The objection applied equally in the appointment of clergymen of any denomination, for, but for the interposition of the priest or clergyman, the criminal, finding all his hopes gone, would frequently yield to the dictates of that natural morality which was superior to the morality of any priest, either Protestant or Roman Catholic. ["Question!"]
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he understood that the hon. Member for Cork had animadverted upon the conduct of the Middlesex magistrates. Now, he (Mr. Newdegate) had been for many years a justice of the peace for Middlesex, and he knew that the Bench of magistrates at Clerkenwell had made some wise concessions in the sense of the demands made by the hon. Member for Cork. What was the result? Had that hon. Gentleman, or any other of the Roman Catholic Members of that Mouse, expressed any satisfaction? Not the least. Count de Montalembert, in writing on the political future of England, described the religious agitation that was going on in this country, of which they had had a sample that day. The Count recommended the Roman Catholics to demand the principle of religious equality for their prisoners in gaols—a principle, by-the-by, which their Church repudiated whenever it had power. Was the fact not enough to prove that whatever concessions that House might make short of granting complete supremacy to the Roman Catholic Church—a supremacy insisted upon by the Pope in his Encyclical—they would give no satisfaction. On the contrary, the result of suck concessions acted as a mere encouragement to agitation. So confident was he that the advice given by Count de Montalembert would be followed out, that he voted against the last of those concessions, and he privately expressed his conviction that those concessions would not be received with satisfaction, but would only lead to further demands. The hon. Member for Cork now proposed to deprive them of the discretion that was vested in the magistrates in respect to the appointment! of Roman Catholic chaplains to gaols, although such magistrates were responsible for the good conduct of those chaplains that were allowed to visit the prisoners. To satisfy the Roman Catholic priesthood was simply impossible. They had the assurance of the Papacy and the Roman Catholic clergy that anything short of supremacy would fail to satisfy them. The Home Secretary, consistently with the amiability of his character, expressed his satisfaction at the concessions being made by the magistrates generally upon this point, and his hope that those concessions
 380
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, as he understood the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) although he thought the present application fair and just in itself, he refused his assent to it because he feared that it would be followed by other applications which, in his view of the case, would not be fair and just. He (Mr. C. Fortescue) hoped that the House would decide this question upon its simple merits without reference to anything else. He denied the application of the word "concession," which had been so frequently used by the hon. Member to the proposition now made by his hon. Friend the Member for Cork. Concession meant the granting of something to a part)' who had no right to ask for it. The application now made was one founded upon right and justice, and therefore could not be considered a concession if granted. He concurred with his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) in thinking that the advice and instruction of a chaplain to prisoners, however few in number, were calculated to produce great good. Speaking from his own knowledge of what occurred in Ireland, and especially in his own county, he would say that the system of securing for the inmates of public institutions the benefit of religions administrations by law was carried out most completely, even to an extent that might be described as pedantic. He remembered with shame the treatment of the Roman Catholic minority in England when he compared it with the more liberal treatment of the Protestant minority in Ireland. In the
 381
 MR. SYNAN  observed that the Prison Ministers Act of 1863 was permissive, but the Act of 1865, which provided that a prisoner, unless he objected, should be visited by a minister of his own denomination, limited to a great extent the discretion of the magistrates. He could not agree with the Home Secretary that great progress was being made, because in 1866 it appeared there were forty-one gaols, at which ten Roman Catholic chaplains were employed, while in the latest Return, referring to 119 prisons, only fifteen chaplains had been appointed. The Returns showed that at several prisons, containing a very considerable number of Roman Catholics, no Roman Catholic chaplain was appointed.
 MR. SYNAN  said, as an Irish Member, he thought the Bill was of some importance. It was one of a very simple character. It was a Bill to extend to Ireland a law which had been confirmed by a statute of George II., and by a subsequent statute of Her Majesty. The Resolutions of that House from time to time, commencing so far back as a declaratory Act of Edward I., repeated the words of the Act which he should now read to them as dealing with the constitutional question—namely, "That all elections be made without interruption or molestation by any commoner, governor, officer, or soldier." The Act also said "that all elections shall be free," and that it was essential to the rights and liberties of the people that it should be so. It further
 412 primâ facie onus probandi onus probandi 413 414 Vict Vict 415
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the Returns moved for had two sides, one of which only had been presented by the hon. Member to the House. The Returns would show that throughout the country great progress had been made in this matter since the Prison Ministers' Act had come into operation. As he had said last year a permissive Act on a subject of this sort would in most cases lead to controversy and this had been the case in this instance. Still, however, great steps had been taken in order to secure to persons in custody who were of a particular religion an opportunity of seeing the ministers to whose creed they belonged in order to be instructed by them. There were, however, in many parts of the country considerable difficulties, where the number of Roman Catholic prisoners were, perhaps, only four, five, or six, and where, the Roman Catholic population being few, there was no priest or chapel near the prison. In these cases it was almost impossible that there should be a regular Roman Catholic chaplain attached to the gaol; but he found that in no case mentioned in the Returns had there been any refusal of access, and in most cases there was a growing freedom of access for the priest. In the county of Middlesex, for instance, to which special reference was made, considerable progress had been made both as to access to prisoners and the assignment of a proper place for the peformance of religious worship. No one in the gaols was debarred from access to a minister of his own creed for the purpose of religious instruction. With respect to the supply of those things that were necessary for religious ceremonies, he thought that it would be found very difficult for any legislation to compel a supply, for they could hardly by legislation lay down rules to be applied to such matters. If there had been what the hon. Member would call a sort of repulsive coldness in the reception of Roman Catholic priests in gaols he (Mr. G. Hardy) did not see how that could be got rid of by legislation. The hon. Member would take steps by his Motion to call on the House to decide the sort of thing that should in the future be done; but he (Mr. G. Hardy) must confess that he was not in favour of that kind of Motion unless immediate legislation could be founded on it.
 378
 MR. CHILDERS  wished to ask, Whether that would be in addition to the £6,000 taken this year?
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought there was a difference between the case of the Revenue officer and that of the soldier, because the latter was excluded from the franchise by a mere accident of his profession and by the exigencies of the service, whereas the exclusion of the former proceeded on an entirely different principle. Undoubtedly the exclusion of the Revenue officers originated in the assumption that they were not to be trusted—that they would not be proof against the influence of their superiors. In the borough he represented (Hull) there was a considerable number of persons connected with the Custom House, the Post Office, and the Inland Revenue. He had known them for many years, and could say that the vast majority of those who had formed any opinion on the subject had always felt their exclusion very much, and now felt it more keenly since the recent extension of the franchise conferred that privilege on many men who certainly were in no way their superiors. Were those officers still to be told that they were either so cowardly that they could not resist the influence of their superiors, or were so much more selfish than other classes that they would use their influence in urging Members of Parliament to obtain professional advancement for them? The patronage of Members of that House only extended to nominations for first admission to the service, and, moreover, there was an easy cure for any undue pressure such as had been referred to. He believed it was
 400
 MR. O'BEIRNE  continued to refer to the enactments against the employment of the military at elections in England, and contended that no election proceedings in Ireland had ever exceeded in brutality the exhibitions of an English mob at the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Lowe's) election for Kidderminster in 1857. In this unfortunate affair two persons lost their lives who had taken no part in the affray. He wished that the danger of the recurrence of such scenes should be obviated by the most stringent enactments. He deeply regretted that any such occurrence should have taken place, because it was calculated to shake the foundation of that affectionate confidence which had always subsisted between the people of Ireland and the soldiery of England.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said it had always been a principle of the British Constitution to look with the greatest jealousy on the employment of military at elections. By the ancient Common Law of this country all elections ought to be free, and an Act provided that previous to English elections the troops should be removed from the places of election to a distance of two miles. The onus of proof that in Ireland there were exceptional circumstances which prevented the carrying out of that principle in that country lay upon those who opposed this Bill. It was most impolitic to irritate the feelings of the Irish people against the military by employing them at elections. Irish elections might be conducted without the presence of troops at least as safely as English elections. The measure was founded on justice and expediency, and he was surprised that opposition to the Bill should come from the other side. Ireland was not behind England in
 416
 MR. BAGWELL  said, this Bill was intended simply to extend to Ireland the law at present in force in England with regard to the employment of military at elections. Unwilling voters ought not to be escorted to the poll by soldiers for the purpose of being made to vote on the unpopular side, in accordance with the opinions of their landlords. The real truth was that the soldiers were employed not so much to protect the voters from violence as to prevent them from running away. In the county of Waterford at the late election the people were very anxious to support the Liberal candidate, whose father had represented the county before, and was highly popular. It happened that in a mountainous district a body of voters who were being brought under military escort to record their votes in favour of the unpopular candidate were stopped by a multitude of men and women, who refused to allow them to proceed. The resident magistrate who accompanied the troops, a man of great prudence and, at the same time, great determination, told him that he had scarcely pulled the Riot Act out of his pocket, when on looking round he saw that every one of the voters had made their escape. The fact was that it was the friends and neighbours, the sons and brothers of the voters themselves that had
 411
 MR. BLAKE , in supporting the Bill, said that the military employed at Irish elections were really no other than election agents. He did not blame the noble Lord, who, when requisitions were sent to him, had no option but to send the military and escort voters who, at the bidding of the Conservative agents, were about to vote against their inclinations. Voters so escorted were looked upon by the people as prisoners; and, in proof of this, a party of convicts who were handcuffed, and were, unluckily, proceeding to their destination on the day of the County Waterford election, were carried off by the mob, against all the efforts of the constabulary. He had himself been assured by voters who were escorted by military to the poll that their earnest prayer was for the success of the candidate against whom, for want of leases, and for Tear of being turned out of their holdings, they were compelled to vote. The first step towards establishing freedom of election in Ireland would be the passing of this Bill, and he hoped it would be carried by a large majority.
 MR. SPEAKER  said that he had referred to the records of the proceedings upon the last occasion this Bill was before the House, and he found that the original Motion for going into Committee upon the Bill had been negatived, and required to be renewed, and therefore the hon. Member (Mr. Monk) was in Order in commencing the debate. He, however, was given to understand that the hon. Member did not wish to press his right to address the House, but merely desired that it should be understood that he was not out of Order in the attempt he made to recommence the debate.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member had on a previous occasion made the Motion that he do now leave the Chair, on which, subsequently, the adjournment of the House and the debate had been moved. The Chancellor of the Exchequer would now be in order in moving his Amendment.
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade (with reference to an inquiry lately held at Penzance into the loss of the steamer  Garonne 371 Western Times,
 MR. MAGUIRE , in reply, said, that he had in some respects been misrepresented by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. He did not deny that progress had been made, or was still being made, but said that progress had been very slow. The Roman Catholic Members did not want chaplains to be appointed in cases where they were not required; but they said that, in common justice, a chaplain should be appointed to minister to Roman Catholic prisoners in cases where there were many of them confined in gaols. The Roman Catholic Members of the House represented 9,000,000 of Her Majesty's subjects, and they would not rest until they had obtained that justice and equality to which they considered them selves entitled. He asked the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), who had made so many professions of his desire to do justice to the Roman Catholics, to carry out his professions by placing a Government Bill on the table of the House next Session, to make the law compulsory instead of permissive. He would not now press his Motion to a division.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the interests affected by his Motion were graver than might appear at first sight. Some years since the state of things in the prisons of
 373 374 375
 MR. J. STUART MILL  appealed to the Secretary of State for India, by whom the adjournment of the debate had been moved on the former occasion, to proceed with his argument.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  then briefly replied to some of the arguments advanced in the course of the debate a few days since upon this Bill, expressing his regret that the measure, instead of being met with a direct negative by a private Member, had not been left for the consideration of the Government.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  confessed that he had not very clearly understood the speech of the right hon. Member for South Lancashire; but his (Mr. M. Chambers') position was this, that he was, and always had
 402 403 404
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  thought the time was come when they should put an end to the exceptional legislation which had been too much in vogue for Ireland. He did not believe that the present system was a fair one, and because it was not justifiable he thought that proper amendments should be effected.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he was sure his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Neate) would not be the man to call upon on ordained priest of God to violate his ordinated vow, which would be the result of adopting the suggestion with which he closed his speech. Believing as he did that the desire of the Catholic Members who supported the Resolution before the House was not to increase the resources of the Church to which they belonged, but simply to carry out their conscientious views, he should support the Resolution. He did this mainly on the ground that in his opinion the magistrates of England are at this moment acting in reference to this matter in a manner the House ought not to countenance; and for this reason the Judges upon whom the duty devolved sentenced convicted criminals to terms of imprisonment commensurate with their offences; but after this had been done, the magistrates, whose duties were, in fact, simply ministerial, inflicted a cumulative punishment by depriving the prisoners of the ministrations of the Church to which they belonged.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  said, the mistake in his case had occurred on a Wednesday, when he had been in the House almost the whole morning. It was the first time he had voted in his life, and he was standing at the Bar, when the predecessor of the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair said the "Ayes" were to go to the right. He thereupon went to his own right, and that was the way in which the error arose. As to the Resolution of the hon. and learned Baronet, he did not think it was a matter of much importance one way or another.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  said, that the exclusion of the police had occurred only ten years ago, and was attributable to the circumstance that it was considered to be their duty to keep order during election contests, when it was supposed that if they took part in them the temptation might be too strong to break their neighbours' heads not quite impartially. As to the officers in the Excise and Customs, they enjoyed the franchise upwards of seventy years ago, and they were deprived of it to protect themselves rather than because of any distrust of them which prevailed. There were at the time only 300,000 electors in the whole of England, while there were 60,000 of those persons holding office under the direct patronage of the First Lord of the Treasury. It so happened that in one small borough of 500 electors 120 officers were appointed, and Lord North who was about to retire
 401
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, that the arguments advanced in support of the Bill, divested of exaggeration, were conclusive against it. The employment of the military at elections was alleged to have occasioned mischievous results; and yet the only instance that had been adduced was that of Dungarvan, in which it was not clearly established that the military were responsible for what occurred. The next argument which had been urged in support of the Bill was that it was desirable that the laws of England and of Ireland should be assimilated. In his opinion, however, if any alteration were made, the law of England ought to be assimilated to; that of Ireland, for at Nottingham and Kidderminster there had been outrages of a kind almost unknown in Ireland. The English law in regard to the employment of the military at elections was founded on the assumption that the power of the Crown might be used to control the electors; but the history of Ireland did not
 417
 MR. GRAVES  said, he had been repeatedly asked to co-operate with the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. Monk) in seeking to bring about the object which he had in view. As a measure of abstract justice, he felt that the officers in question had a fair claim to the rights of citizenship which the Bill would confer upon them, and if it were pressed to a division that evening he should vote for it. But, as had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, there were many grave considerations connected with the subject which the Bill did not touch, such, for instance, as how far it was consistent with the privileges which it was proposed to give, that the present system of nomination should be allowed to continue in the case of the Inland Revenue and Customs. Now, if the Bill were referred to a Select Committee, as he understood the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire to suggest, that would be one of the leading points to which their attention must be directed. His own belief was that the nominations must be made non-political. But, be that as it might, he hoped the hon. Member for Gloucester would be satisfied, in the event of the Government assenting to the reference of the whole subject to a Select Committee, with the progress which he had already made in furthering his measure, and would not proceed hastily in the endeavour to legislate on a matter of such importance.
 MR. WEGUELIN  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether any regulations have been promulgated by the Board of Trade to prevent the overloading of Merchant Ships?
 MR. MONSELL  acknowledged the courteous and conciliatory remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the home Department, and expressed his concurrence with him that it would be inexpedient for his hon. Friend the Member for Cork, under the circumstances, to press his Motion to a division. It would be inadvisable for the House to pass a mere abstract Resolution upon the subject unless it were immediately followed up by legislation. He (Mr. Monsell), however, ventured to submit to the right hon. Gentleman that in all the prisons of the United Kingdom there should be an equal system observed in regard to the religious wants of the prisoners. It was curious to mark how differently the prisoners belonging to the religion of the minority were treated in Ireland to the prisoners of the minority as regarded faith in England. He need not speak of the prisoners professing the religion of the Established Church in Ireland, who had always the assistance of the ministers of their own faith. But he would take the Presbyterians as an example. In 1865 he found there were on an average only eighty-two Presbyterian prisoners in Ireland. Well, for the spiritual wants of those eighty-two prisoners there were fourteen paid chaplains. In the county Louth there was only one Presbyterian prisoner, and in Fermanagh two Presbyterian prisoners. Nevertheless, there was a Presbyterian chaplain with a salary of upwards of £30 to attend to each of these gaols. He by no means complained of this expenditure. On the contrary, however few the prisoners were, he believed that the ministrations of the clergy were attended with the best results. In this country, however, the greatest difficulty was experienced in obtaining for the Roman Catholic prisoners in many of the gaols the religious consolation and instruction of their own priests. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would take the question into his serious consideration, and would endeavour to introduce a Bill next Session which should
 379
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  supported the Motion for going into Committee on the Bill. After twenty-five years personal experience of their habits and conduct, he was able to bear testimony to their honesty, industry, and integrity. The civil servants in the Customs he could vouch for being enlightened and educated men, and such as ought to be entrusted with the franchise.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  continued: He could not understand why the Government hesitated to enfranchise this class of Revenue servants. They would honestly exercise the franchise, and as it was not known which way these men would vote it could not be said it was a party question. He hoped the Government would withdraw their opposition to the measure.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  rose to call attention to the practice of the House
 384
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he was sorry that the Leader of the House had not made any observations on a matter affecting the conduct of the Business of the House; but after what had fallen from the few hon. Members who had spoken he would not press his Resolution.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he considered the speech of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) irrelevant to the subject. The question was a very narrow one, being confined to a question merely of prison administration—namely, whether Roman Catholic priests should be allowed to attend Roman Catholic prisoners when in gaol for the benefit of such prisoners, and for the real object for which they were confined—that of their improvement, and for the good order and discipline of the prison. This was not a concession to Roman Catholics, but whether it was right or wrong that Roman Catholic priests should be admitted to prisoners who belonged to that Church. If it was wrong to permit them, there was an end of the question. Prisoners, however, were not sent to gaol merely for their punishment. The State was certainly interested in the reformation of her prisoners, and as the only means of reforming prisoners was through the instrumentality of religion, and as it was impossible to expect the Roman Catholic prisoners to be reformed by the doctrines of a religion in which they did not believe, he regarded this so-called concession as a simple act of
 382
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman to be consistent
 394
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, it was unfortunately true that instances had been known in Ireland of bands of tenants being brought up and forced to poll under the terror of the bayonets of the military. On every occasion when party feeling was strongly excited they had had these military riots. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to have utterly forgotten the case of Six Mile Bridge in 1862, when several persons were bayoneted. The military were used as the electioneering agents of the landlord; and it was to put a stop to such abuses that they wished an effective measure to be passed. If they really wished for freedom of election, why not take the reasonable and practical mode of ensuring the freedom of the voters? Nothing could be more inconsistent than to give perfect freedom to the electors in England, and, at the same time, to place the whole armed force of the Crown at the disposal of the landlords, for the purpose of coercing their tenantry to vote against their consciences, and driving them up to the polling-booths like prisoners. That was a state of things demanding a remedy, He did not complain that the influence of the Crown was exercised wrongfully; but he maintained that the power of the military was. He held that it was the duty of Parliament to equalize the laws of England and Ireland.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  asked, Whether the insane prisoners were insane when first imprisoned?
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether his attention has been directed to a Return made to this House dated 18th May 1868, No. 279, showing the number of Committals in Scotland for 1866–7, by which it appears that in sixteen cases 20 days and over, in sixty-six cases 150 days and over, and in 176 cases 100 days and over elapsed between the committal and the trial of prisoners; and, whether it is his intention to take any steps to insure the shortening of such serious delay in the administration of justice?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that at that late hour he did not feel justified in launching the House upon a fresh discusssion.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that no such regulations had been issued by the Board of Trade, who had in fact no power to issue any. It had, however, been proposed to insert a clause in the Merchant Shipping Acts Amendment Bill with the view of enabling a seaman to obtain a speedy survey of a ship in which he refused to sail on the ground of overloading, or other cause. It had also been suggested, and the suggestion seemed reasonable, that in order lo facilitate the obtaining by underwriters of evidence of overloading, the draught of water should be painted in legible figures on the stem and stern of every vessel, and that the officers of the dock or Custom House should take note of the depth she drew as she proceeded to sea. It was impossible to lay down rules on that subject which should apply to all vessels, and it might be questioned whether they did not, even now, err in such matters on the side of over legislation, which must tend to diminish unduly the responsibility of the shipowner.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, in reply, that Mr. O'Dowd was in Ireland; but that a telegram from him had been received that afternoon stating that the report of his speech referred to by the hon. and gallant Admiral was accurate, and it certainly appeared from the evidence that some of the sailors who were saved had bags of clothes with them. Very little effort seemed to have been made to save the passengers. There appeared to have been a total absence of order and discipline, owing, no doubt, to a want of firmness and presence of mind in the master and chief officer, who, it was only fair to say, were also regardless of their own safety, and went down with the vessel. The Report and main part of the evidence, which were somewhat voluminous, had been published in the  Western Times.
 MR. BAZLEY , in moving an Address for Papers and Correspondence relating to the case of a merchant named Adjouri, said, that in 1865 a partnership was entered into at Manchester, which two years afterwards became embarrassed. In 1867 the partner in Manchester received a telegraphic message from Aleppo to invoice £10,000 of Manchester goods for Aleppo, for which a remittance would be provided. The remittance did not arrive. The house of Adjouri and Company had conducted itself with punctuality and respect; but having suspended payment a bankruptcy became inevitable, and Adjouri was made a bankrupt in February. In 1867 Adjouri absconded from Manchester. The merchants of that city sent a messenger to Aleppo to secure debts, but he obtained no payment whatever. An action was instituted in Aleppo, in a Court framed for the trial of international causes. In the course of the trial indications were manifest favourable to the creditors. But as the trial proceeded, very much to the surprise of those engaged in it, the Turkish authorities suspended the trial. Lord Lyons was leaving Constantinople at the time, and Mr. Elliott, his successor, was in a state of transition. Communications took place between various parties, but the Turkish authorities contested the rights of British nationality. What, then, was the British Consul doing? The sum of £2,000 had been spent in seeking redress of the grievance. At this time last year application was made to the Government for redress. The answer was that more information was needed as to what took place in Constantinople. His constituents had had great wrong done them. He did not doubt that ultimately Her Majesty's Government would give them redress. But what he complained of was the unnecessary delay. He wished to have no further delay, "which made the heart sick."
 LORD HENRY LENNOX,  in reply, said, that in pursuance of a promise given by the First Lord of the Admiralty an inquiry had been made as to the position of navy chaplains, and the Board of Admiralty were unanimously agreed that these gentlemen had a perfect right to be placed on the same footing with their brethren in the army, both as to pay and position; but the Government had not been able, in the present financial year, to make arrangements for carrying this into effect. In reply to the second part of the Question, he must inform the hon. Gentleman that it was not the intention of the Government to grant commissions to Roman Catholic and Presbyterian chaplains
 425
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that before moving that the Order be discharged, he wished to call the attention of the House and of the Government to the present anomalous state of the law. The late Government opposed a Bill brought in by his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (MR. Ewart) for the adoption of the system of metric weights and measures; but being defeated by a large majority, they agreed to bring in a Bill permitting the use of metric weights and measures. Persons, however, who were found using them were prosecuted for having these measures in their possession. The case was laid before the Law Officers of the Crown, who held that it was lawful, according to this Act, to use metric weights and measures, but that if a person were found in possession of them he would be liable to be prosecuted. His hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (MR. Ewart) thereupon brought in a Bill enacting that the metric system of metric weights and measures should be adopted in this country. A large majority had affirmed the second reading of his hon. Friend's Bill, and he must do the present Government the justice to say that they had heartily supported the measure. It was, however, necessary that proper metric standards should be provided to verify these weights and measures, and the Government had appointed a Royal Commission to consider the question. Next year he hoped the Government would bring in a Bill and carry this great question to a successful issue. Countries containing a population of no less than 270,000,000 had adopted the metric system of weights and measures, and only a few days ago the King of Prussia congratulated his Parliament upon the adoption of this system throughout the whole of Germany. The
 426
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said: The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has told us a great deal about the petitions which have been presented against this Bill; but although the two Universities have affixed their corporate seals to petitions against it, as indeed they have done to petitions against almost every good Bill in which they have been pleased to take an interest
 429 "That religion must be indeed divine which can maintain itself in spite of all that goes on in the high places of the Church." 430 431 Lyra Apostolica "During the preparatory years of school life, the principle of authority must necessarily hold paramount sway; and again, in later life, the force of circumstances and authority have a large share in determining our course of action; but there should be at least one moment in the life of every educated man in which all the organs of authority—the nation, the State, and the teacher himself—should proclaim to him, as his first and highest commandment, that he be intellectually free. … Whether the individual man, as a result of his studies and labours, takes this or that direction—whether he becomes Liberal or Conservative, re-actionary or progressist, orthodox or Liberal—for us who direct the University system, that which is really essential is this, that whatever the youth becomes, he should become it, not from mere youthful habit, not from dim sentiment, or traditional obedience, but that for the rest of his life he should be whatever he is as a result of scientific consideration, critical examination, and independent resolve." Lehrfreiheit 432
 MR. MELLY  rose to address the House with feelings of very considerable diffidence for two reasons. In the first place he was a Nonconformist, who had therefore not had the great advantage of an Oxford or Cambridge University training, and never had he so painfully felt the want of those advantages as at that moment; and, in the second place, he had also the unhappiness to belong to the small, low, and insignificant section of the community to which the hon. Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Cavendish Bentinck) had alluded—a class which, he said, was not even rich enough to have a single chapel in Westminster. [Mr. BENTINCK explained—he did not say that it was small and insignificant, but that it was small in some parts of London.] He would show that if it were small in London, which was news to him, it was a very large, powerful, and rich section of the community in the Northern parts of this country. The hon. Member for Cambridge University divided the persons who were in favour of this Bill into three parties, and he (Mr. Melly) belonged to the second of those—the party that sent up a cry for University culture for themselves and for their children. For himself, he hoped to see his sons rise from what the hon. Member for Cambridge University called "the depths of nothingness," and become scholars and Fellows in one of our national Universities. The hon. Member for Whitehaven told them that their having to sign these tests was a merely sentimental grievance. He (Mr. Melly) was in "another place" the other evening, and heard one of the most eloquent and witty prelates on the Episcopal Bench thus describe the state of feeling known as having a sentimental grievance. He said—
 "It is a morbid sensitiveness as to some fancied wrong, which, because it has not got a real existence, is all the more difficult to remove." "You have no right to subject Nonconformists and their children to humiliating distinctions. High education and refinement may be bought too dear, if purchased at the sacrifice of personal self-respect and personal dignity." 452 bonâ fide nouveaux riches 453 454 nouveaux riches 455 …. "a doleful song Steaming up a lamentation and an ancient tale of wrong, As a tale of little meaning, though the words are strong."
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was glad to find that his hon. Friend the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) had directed his efforts to endeavouring to remove the defects which existed in the law of libel
 472
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said: I am sorry that my hon. Friend the Member for the Elgin burghs, who has just addressed the House, should have done himself an. injustice in the line of argument which he has adopted in supporting this Bill. Those who have listened to his speech and who have merely read the Bill of my hon. Friend opposite, on the back of which the name of the hon. Member for Elgin is also found, would be tempted to believe that he had not himself read the Bill which he has been supporting. This measure is an amalgamation of two preceding Bills—the one of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter for opening the Universities, and the other of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock for opening the Colleges. But from first to last of the speech just concluded not one word was heard with regard to the constitution of the Colleges. From first to last my hon. Friend dealt with the secondary and minor element of the pre-
 433 abandon 434 435 436 437 Essays and Reviews Suggestions on Academical Organization with especial Reference to Oxford 438 "For my own part, I think the fears of the Catholic party, whether within or without the National Establishment, are substantially well
founded."….. "It is the school of classics ( Literœ Humaniores 439 "I venture very earnestly to urge the conviction that the intellectual freedom for which Mr. Mill gives Oxford credit, and which, within the bounds defined by Christian humility, I do not desire to abridge, would be more safely exercised, and would be stronger and more healthy, if there were less ignorance of common principles and laws of nature, more security for sound training in exact studies, admitting of definite certainty, requiring care in the statement of the  datum quœsitum 440 441 442 443 a primâ facie 444 445
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  denied that the division on the second reading was a proof of the general feeling on the subject. It was one of those political contrivances by which both parties—the Government and the Opposition—had avoided au issue which neither wished to encounter. The second reading was affirmed on the understanding that the measure was not to proceed further. Practical men in the country were largely protesting against the inconvenience which the adoption of the system would entail.
 MR. NEATE  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had laid much stress on the Address that was presented by members of the Universities to the Archbishop of Canterbury against this Bill. He did not deny that that Address contained the names of many eminent men and men of high standing in the University. But he believed the youth and strength of the Universities to be favourable to the Bill, although the senior Fellows and Heads of Houses were against it; and he would point out that some of the most distinguished Colleges in Oxford were but weakly represented in the signatures to that Address, from which he drew the inference that, although all the intellect of the University had not yet passed, it was fast passing into the ranks of those who were in favour of this Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the advocates of this Bill assumed that orthodoxy and ignorance, and Nonconformity and knowledge were convertible terms. He held that such a proposition was totally untenable. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down used an illustration respecting feeding-boxes, which he held to be ridiculous, and unworthy of the subject; but as it had been introduced he might say that the ring-necked pheasant, the old orthodox English pheasant, always weighed several pounds heavier than the imported Chinese variety, which the hon. Gentleman opposite seemed so much to favour. It was argued on the other side that the existence of tests was a sign of ignorance in faith. Now, it
 467 "When Lord Stanley joined the Education Board he had no such thought—[as examinations in Scripture of the children]. And when first Mr. Carlyle proposed drawing up Scripture extracts, I partook of the same expectations with Bishop Philpots, that no selections could be introduced with the concurrence of all parties such as should be of any utility. I do not even now think my apprehensions groundless. The obstacles were incomparably greater than those to any analogous plan in England. The result, however, was complete success. All the efforts to raise jealousy in reference to the Scripture extracts have within the schools themselves totally failed. They are read with delight and profit by almost all the children, and I and other Protestants, as Lord Stanley knows, have examined the children of all denominations without knowing to which each child belonged, and found them better taught in Scripture than most gentlefolks' children." Early Lessons and Christian Evidences "But had the plan gone no further than Lord
 468
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that amidst the lights and shades of what he might call the kaleidoscopic speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just eat down it was difficult to find anything substantial upon which the eye could rest or with which he (Mr. C. Fortescue) could deal in the way of serious argument. But he was surprised to hear a representative of one of our great Universities—a place which professed to be the very temple of intellect—adopt a tone of something like undisguised contempt for what he termed "free thought," or, in other words, intellect freely used. For his own part, he should rather have heard from a Member for the University of Cambridge expressions of even pedantic admiration for intellect so used. The hon. Gentleman seemed to imagine that if once the restrictions which the Bill was intended to abolish were removed, and the Universities thus exposed to the rude air of liberty, the cause of religion in the Established Church would be hopeless—an argument which would not, perhaps, be regarded as strange if it came from a member of the clerical body, but which ap-
 446 447 448
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  observed that this Bill was much more extensive than any that had been introduced before on the subject; and its opponents might take the credit of having prophesied that the principles laid down in the measure first brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge) would lead to something still more serous; in proof of which the hon. and learned Gentleman had now combined his own Bill with that of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). In the course of his speech in moving the second reading of this Bill, the hon. and learned Gentleman, forgetting the gentleness he usually showed to his opponents, made some harsh and strong remarks. With reference to what he (Mr. G. Hardy) had himself said, the hon. and learned Gentleman used the terms "coarse and vulgar; "but he proceeded on an entire misconception of what had been said. What he said was that these were establishments founded for religious objects, and that those who were endeavouring to secularize them would pervert them from the original intention of the endowment. In no instance did they find any amount of secular endowments; but always in the case of education the foundation was made by individuals from religious motives and for religious objects. He perfectly understood the position of the hon. Member for the Elgin burghs (Mr. Grant Duff), for he always spoke with great candour and frankness. That hon. Member wished to change the system of our Universities altogether, and make them like the German Universi-
 456 quasi 457
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : But did the hon. Gentleman mean to tell them that Dissenters were not particular in sending their children where certain opinions would be inculcated? His opinion was that Dissenters were as desirous to have dogmatic denominational teaching as Churchmen themselves. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) when speaking on the subject of this Bill in a former Session dwelt on the necessity of a religious test for teachers. Then it was said the whole intellect of the Universities was in favour of this Bill. The hon. and learned
 458 "The questions raised by Mr. Coleridge's Bill are no more continuation of the feud between Churchmen and Nonconformists. They penetrate much deeper; hence our children will understand that all such questions really resolve themselves into this—whether our Universities are to continue to be Christian or whether Chapel services and Divinity lectures are still to be kept up with a view to attracting the sons of Christian parents into lecture-rooms where the existence of God is denied." 459 Origin of Universities 460 Dominus illuminatio mea
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge) had stated the misrepresentations as to this Bill to be extravagant and incomprehensible; but two of its objects were clear enough, one to appropriate property which belonged to the Church of England, and the other to raise a hustings cry to gain the Nonconformist vote. But there was a great division of opinion among the supporters of the Bill as to its policy. One section, with the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. P. A. Taylor), desired to seize the property of all Establishments, in order that the Church of England "might go farther and fare worse." Another section maintained, with the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), and also, if he was not mistaken, with the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), that when a man parted with property for a public purpose the State might apply it as it pleased, without regard to the intentions and desire of the donor. Now, if this doctrine prevailed, there would be an end of charitable dispositions; for no one would leave property for a particular public object if he believed it might be forthwith otherwise applied. Those opinions were, however, intelligible, and in accordance with the spirit of the Bill; but there was still a large section of hon. Gentlemen opposite who held that faith should be kept with founders; and their support of this measure, so long as the Church of England was the religion of the majority, was incomprehensible. He would not revive the question of pre-Reformation endowments which were held by the same title as ecclesiastical property; but he would remind the hon. and learned Member for Exeter that one-half of the Cambridge College endowments, comprising three Colleges, many Bye Fellowships, and twenty-two Professorships were given after the Reformation, and there was no more right to seize these benefactions than the property of Nonconformist institutions or than that of the hospitals. It would be monstrous to do this simply because, in the course of thirty years, six individuals had declined to take the tests necessary for holding Fellowships. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter
 449 450 "Those who frequent free Universities incur dangers to morals as well as to faith. It is impossible to discover circumstances which would allow Roman Catholics without sin to attend non-Catholic Universities."
 MR. WINTERBOTHAM  remarked that they were only theological as far as regarded the clergy.
 MR. COLERIDGE  said, he would not attempt to answer a good many of the objections urged against this measure by hon. Gentlemen opposite, because those objections were urged rather against some creatures of their own imagination than against this Bill, with which they could have no more to do than with the Bill for the alteration of weights and measures which the House had that day been discussing. It had been said that those who supported the measure did not agree on the grounds on which they should support it. That was perfectly true. They were endeavouring to make an advance in a particular direction, but some went further than others in the path of progress, though all were prepared to go the length of this Bill. Though there was only one way of saying "No," there were 500 ways of saying "Yes," and it was natural that those who approached the subject from a Liberal point of view should approach it with different motives; but, as a party, they were generally content with the measure. The real question was, whether the Bill before the House was one the principle of which the House ought to affirm? The question had been argued as if it was proposed to take from persons who were entitled to keep, and give to those who were not entitled to receive. That argument was not tenable with respect to the Bill, because all that was proposed to be done was simply to remove restrictions which had been imposed by the authority of Parliament itself, and the earliest of these was a clause in the Act of Uniformity of the time of Charles II. If the Colleges
 470 471
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Member that that was not the time to discuss the merits of the measure.
 MR. EYKYN  said, he wished to ask, If the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty have come to any decision on the organization in regard to the improvement, pay, and position of Naval Chaplains; and, whether it is the intention of the Board of Admiralty to appoint commissioned Presbyterian and Roman Catholic Chaplains for the service of Her Majesty's Fleet at home and abroad?
 MR. E. A. LEATHAM : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hardy) has shown how this question strikes members of the Church of England. Notwithstanding what has fallen from the hon. Member for White-haven, I believe that fully half the nation are not members of the Church, and since this Bill is introduced mainly for their relief, it is worth while, I think, before this debate closes to show how the question strikes them. We are taunted almost as though it were an indictable offence with desiring to make the national Universities really national instead of being what they are—very little more than seminaries for the clergy and for those who are content to hang on to the skirts of the sacerdotal vesture. The hon. Member for Whitehaven told us that he would not call this Bill a Bill of confiscation, and immediately proceeded to call it so; and the right hon. Gentleman has followed the same line of argument. But, Sir, it seems to me that the true answer to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman is that the property of the Colleges and Universities is held by Parliamentary title—in trust for the nation. The real question, therefore, is—who are the
 461 462 463 Laughter 464 465 ex cathedra? 466
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN,  in moving the discharge of the Order for going into Committee on this Bill, said, he had introduced it on the 22nd of November last, and had taken every opportunity of forwarding it through its various stages, but was now compelled most reluctantly to withdraw it. The present position of the Bill showed the difficulties which attended the attempt on the part of a private Member to pass an opposed Bill through Parliament. The Bill had been substantially talked to death, but if he had the honour of a seat in the next Parliament he should certainly bring it forward again.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN,  in moving "that Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair," said, the object of the present Bill was to assimilate the law in Ireland to the law in England, and to deprive a plaintiff in an action for libel of costs unless he got 40s. damages. In Ireland at present a verdict in an action for libel for one farthing carried costs, and that law had worked great hardship in several recent cases.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that his hon. Friend, having omitted to make a speech when he withdrew the former Bill, had apparently disburdened himself on the present measure of the speech he had intended to have made on the last. He would not now reply to the remarks of his hon. Friend, but would, if he had the opportunity, answer the objections both of his hon. Friend and of other hon. Members in the course of next Session.
 MR. POWELL  said, he would point out, as one of the objections to this Bill, that it had not received the favour of the Universities themselves, for as regarded Cambridge alone, petitions signed by no fewer than 2,232 Members of the Senate had been presented against it. It was a common thing to compare the German and other Continental Universities with the English; but, in truth, they were wholly dissimilar. The former were founded by the State, directed by the State, and, in fact, were the creatures of the State; whereas the latter consisted in a great degree of Colleges which were the result of private benefactions. But although the
 427 428 "Naturam expellas furcâ, tamen usque recurret, Et mala perrumpet furtim fastidia victrix."
 ADMIRAL BUNCOMBE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he sees any objection to the appointment of a separate High Sheriff for the East Hiding of the County of York; and, if he will take the subject into his consideration, with the view of remedying some of the inconveniences arising from there being one High Sheriff for the whole County?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that, in the unavoidable absence of his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty, he would reply to the Question. He had to inform the hon. Gentleman that it would be contrary to all precedent to lay on the table Copies of the confidential communications which might have passed between the Law Officers of the Crown and the Heads of Public Departments. The case of those Reserved Captains had been carefully considered, as soon as the present Government came into Office. Nearly half of them, thirty-seven, had served one year at sea and so fulfilled the conditions which enabled the Board of Admiralty to grant the advantages for which
 522
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I believe it is my duty to second the Motion which has been made by the right hon. Gentleman and this is certainly an occasion on which the performance of such a duty must be regarded in the light also of a rare privilege. Indeed, Sir, if it were the custom of this House, as it is not, on any occasion to dispense with forms, and to give effect to its feelings, in the manner of some assemblies, by the method of acclamation, I believe that acclamation is perhaps the mode in which it would be most gratifying to us all to make known our decision on the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman has described with great felicity of expression, and, so far as I can judge, without the smallest exaggeration, the general character of this Expedition, from which it derives its title to a place of no very common order in military history. I do not, of course, mean to claim for it—nor would it be wise to claim for those who have been engaged in it—precisely the same kind of fame as attaches to occasions in which desperate conflicts have been waged with equal or nearly equal force between nations or between armies alike possessed of all the resources of modern warfare. But we have lived into a time in which, if it cannot be said of the soldier, it must be said of the commander, that mere fighting, however arduous the task, mere tactics, and mere strategy have become, perhaps though still vital and essential, yet almost secondary parts of the qualities required to make a successful general. And it is in this department, which relates to the conflict that had to be carried on by Sir Robert Napier, with Nature, with distance, with climate, with all the diversities and difficulties presented by one of the most peculiar portions of the earth, with the civil government of the Army, with the provision made for every want, that this Expedition presents to our view a history alike complete and satisfactory. There is, indeed, something tame and feeble in the language of uniform and unbroken eulogy, and yet the occasion does not permit us to adopt any other language. We may look at what
 527 528 Resolved, Nemine Contradicente 529 Resolved, Nemine Contradicente Resolved, Nemine Contradicente Resolved, Nemine Contradicente Ordered Mr. Disraeli.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  took the opportunity of expressing his great regret that he was compelled to appear in the place of the First Lord of the Admiralty (Mr. Corry), who was laid up by a serious indisposition, which rendered it quite impossible for him to be in his place and to go on with the Estimates. It was thought better that the House should go into Supply, and that the Navy Estimates should be intrusted to him, and he should desire to give the same information to the Committee which his right hon. Friend would have done had he been present.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he regretted to be obliged to oppose the reduction of the Vote, which had certainly increased during the last few years, nor could he see that that increase was likely
 537
 SIR JOHN HAY , in answer to the Question of the hon. and gallant Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. Hanbury-Tracy) respecting the appointment of the Director General of Naval Ordnance, said, that in consequence of the great change that was taking place in our naval ordnance, the labours of the Director of Stores were so great that it was impossible for him to perform the duties of Director General of Naval Ordnance in addition to his own duties, and therefore it was found necessary to appoint Admiral Cooper Key to that Department. It was found necessary to continue the services of the gallant officer for another year; but it was hoped the day would come when our ordnance would all be of one pattern, and our ships have uniform armaments. He confessed he was afraid that day was distant, and in the meantime this additional labour must be discharged by some efficient officer.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, a saving had already been effected in substituting writers for paymasters at one-fifth less the usual cost. The appointment of messengers was in the patronage of the First Lord of the Admiralty, and he would convey the hon. and gallant Member's (Mr. Hnnbury-Tracy's) wishes to him. Every precaution was taken that proper persons were appointed, for they had to undergo a Civil Service examination of so strict a character as officers in the army some years ago would have been hardly able to meet.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, what he meant to say was that the requirements of the present day would have puzzled gentle-
 539
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman would move an increase in the Vote for the purpose, the Civil Lord would support him.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he thought it right to explain that the excess referred to by the hon. and gallant Member had arisen in consequence of the system adopted ever since the institution of the Royal Naval Reserve. At first it was considered that the number of 16,000 men might reasonably be anticipated from the Mercantile Marine to form the Royal Naval Reserve; and the Estimate was always framed on the assumption that that number would be completed. At present the number was 15,156. The number enrolled had been 24,704; but 9,548 had to be deducted for discharges and failures to re-enlist. The official Return on the 30th June was, as he had stated, 15,156 men available for the public service, if at any moment hostilities should break out. There was a sudden reduction in the number in 1866, 3,000 men being found not fit for re-enlistment; but since then, by very great care in enlistment and judicious selection, the force had again been increased to 15,156. As he had stated, an excess of £20.000 had been taken on the assumption that the number of 16,000 men would be enlisted and drilled; but that number had not risen to that amount, and he was free to confess there had always been a considerable balance on the Vote. This arose from the great desire not to check enlistment or drill. But if the House thought it undesirable that the extra £20,000 should be voted, the Government would have no objection to the reduction proposed. Of course, it would still be their duty not to check enlistment or drill, and he felt assured if the Vote were exceeded, the House would make it good. He was glad to assure the House that in the Royal Naval Reserve the country had a most admirable force, which might be entirely relied on in case their services were required—a most valuable class of men, who had shown their readiness to serve, as well as their zeal and energy, on the occasion of the  Trent affair.
 COLONEL SYKES  held it to be highly unconstitutional to vote more than is superficially wanted.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he had to inform the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) that there was one item of £2,000 for the purpose of remunerating the gentlemen to whom he had referred. The distribution of it was in the hands of the Board of Trade, and he had no doubt it would be distributed with justice. The officers selected for the coast batteries were supposed to thoroughly understand their duties, and the drilling of the men had been reported as very satisfactory. The men were most anxious to make themselves efficient, and as they were, doubtless, well known at their place of joining, it was not, he thought, at all necessary to watch them with policeman like vigilance, because he believed that their patriotism might safely be relied upon when their services were required by the State.
 MR. OTWAY  complained that the answers which had been given were based upon Returns which appeared to be fallacious, and which, he thought, betrayed great irregularities on the part of the public Departments with regard to the arrangement of the accounts.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that before asking the Committee to agree to this Vote, he thought it would be desirable for him to state the changes which had been made, and they were very few, since the introduction of the Estimates a few weeks since. At that time it had been pointed out that the programme anticipated last year had very nearly been carried out. The Estimate for iron-clad shipbuilding was 6,845 tons, the number of tons actually built were 6,829, and for unarmoured shipbuilding 16,699 tons, as against 16,427. During the Recess, the Government had come to the determination to reduce the amount for wages in the dockyards, and it appeared that there had been a reduction of £157,775 in wages, and 3,049 in the number of men. The Government were justified in making that reduction; but they had learned with regret that a great amount of distress existed in the dock-yards in consequence of the reduction. By the regulations made at the Treasury under which the hired men were employed, those who had served for twenty years were entitled to a gratuity on their discharge; but many of those thrown out of employment in consequence of the reduction had not served the prescribed time, and thus while oftentimes unable to obtain other employment, they also received nothing in the shape of a gratuity from the Government. He felt bound to state this circumstance, inasmuch as the Admiralty had received numerous applications on the subject. The Admiralty had reduced this item in consequence of the large amount of unarmoured ships which were not intended to be laid down this year. When the First Lord of the Admiralty moved the Estimates he stated that there would be built at Chatham two iron-clads—one of the  Invincible Hercules Monitor Monitor Invincible Osborne 545 Osborn Black Eagle Bellerophon Achilles Bellerophon Achilles Bellerophon 546 Bellerophon Achilles Bellerophon. Bellerophon Bellerophon Bellerophon Bellerophon Bellerophon Achilles. Bellerophon Bellerophon Achilles Minotaur Lord Warden 547 Minotaur Bellerophon Minotaur Achilles Hercules Bellerophon Hercules Bellerophon's Minotaur Bellerophon Hercules. König Wilhelm. "And when she rode securely on the Thames with her vast hull and beautiful lines, dwarfing to more pigmies the vessels around, there was none who saw her, except the Prussian visitors themselves, who did not regret that the Admiralty had allowed such a vessel to pass into the hands of any foreign Power." 548 Bellerophon Bellerophon. Achilles "We must not lose sight of the fact that from the great length of the  Achilles Bellerophon "I consider this ship to be a very successful specimen of our new ships." Achilles "I feel bound to award the first place to the  Achilles. Bellerophon Bellerophon "I hear various reports that this ship is a bad roller in a sea way; this I can with the greatest confidence contradict. I consider her a remarkably steady ship—so much so, indeed, as quite to surprise me after the  Arethusa Achilles Warrior, Lord Clyde Lord Warden 549 Achilles "The  Bellerophon Achilles Bellerophon. "I was most agreeably surprised, therefore, to find that she had not only made good a speed of 13·8 knots on her late six hours' trial, but is a remarkably steady ship, as the recorded angles of the squadron will show. She is also a very handy ship under steam alone, and for her small sail power a very handy ship under sail alone. This comparative handiness when she is compared with long ships— Minotaur Achilles Bellerophon Bellerophon's Bellerophon Bellerophon's 550 Ocean "I am sure, when we left the Mediterranean and it was known that our route was to be down to the southward of the Cape, among all the strong westerly gales that prevail there, that there were few on that fine-weather station who would have cared to belong to her, and perhaps not a few who thought we should not get there without going through loss of spars, accidents, and battening down of every sort; in fact, everyone seemed to think that every sea must wash clean over her—that she could never rise to them. Experience, however, has taught us that in both theories we are wrong, and from my own experience I can safely say, and so can 'all of us,' that if all iron-clads are like the  Ocean "The sea, of course, was very heavy, and stove every boat we had at the davits; but, on the whole, I think we may congratulate ourselves that we made such excessively good weather as we did. No wooden ship could have gone through it better, and a good many worse." Danaë Blanche 551 Bellerophon Bellerophon.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he hoped the House would not think that he was going to offer a factious opposition to the Bill. It was not a party Bill, and it was not a Bill which could affect any individual Member; but it was simply a Bill to accelerate the registration of the voters in the country. But that was not the sole point for the House to consider. They were there to consider whether it was wise and prudent that a Bill of that kind should be passed for this specific year, and whether it would have the effect, which all wished, of placing on the register those whom they had admitted to the franchise. If the Bill was passed, it would prevent a large number of those whom they wished to enfranchise from getting that franchise, and there would be a universal cry when they met in December or January by those who were returned that their constituents were not fairly represented. The result would be that another election would loom in the distance, and he knew not if that was their wish. The Bill provided that the registration should be completed by the end of October. The elections were to take place in November, and they are to meet there in December. For what purpose? Simply to decide whether the Gentlemen opposite should sit on that side, and whether those who sat on that side shall go to the opposite Benches. Whether that was to take place time would show. If the registration was not complete it would matter little whether they met in January or December. Let them consider the complicated nature of the Bill. There was the compound-householder, a gentleman whom they thought dead and buried, but who, nevertheless would make alterations in the new registry necessary. There was also
 562
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, if he thought that this Bill would in any way affect the rights of the electors by diminishing their chances of getting upon the register he would not have considered it his duty on the part of the Government to propose it. But those who sat on the Select Committee were satisfied that nothing would be taken away from the rights of voters. The only question was whether sufficient time was allowed for revision. Those who had most considered the question believed there was. He was himself satisfied there was, and therefore he hoped the House would go into Committee.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he had a few observations to make on the Bill, which he thought had been but little discussed in the House. He must describe this as a Bill designed to slur over the registration and to hurry on the General Election at the earliest possible period. He dared say that some Gentlemen in that House were anxious to bring on an election; but he had asked himself, and he had asked persons out of that House, what possible object could be gained by the new House of Commons meeting in December. The only answer he could get to the question was this—" If we accept this Bill, and hurry on the elections, the new House of Commons will he able to meet in December, in order to decide which of the two factions in this House shall carry on its Business next Session." That might be a very important matter for those who expected Office; but hon. Gentlemen who were "outsiders" and the public at large did not care one farthing which set of statesmen might conduct the Business of the country during the months of December and January. When Parliament had passed a Bill enabling very large numbers to get themselves placed on the electoral roll, commonsense and prudence would dictate that the registration should be conducted in the most effectual manner. This Bill came before the House with great recommendations. It professed to be a Ministerial Bill;
 563 564 565
 MR. MELLER  said, the Bill would cause so much dissatisfaction that he must protest against it, and vote for the Amendment. For the last two years they had been discussing the desirability of making most important changes in the electoral system, and yet their labours were, after all, to have no fruition, as it were, because those whom it was sought to benefit, would receive no benefit at all, in consequence of the haste with which registration was to be slurred over. In the large towns and counties in the North great inconvenience would be caused, and he wished to point out that if the number of Revising Barristers were doubled, the number of election agents must be doubled also. The time at present allowed for registration was quite short enough, but it was proposed still further to shorten it, and as the Court of Common Pleas did not sit until some time on in the month of November, there would practically be no appeal from the decisions of the Revising Barristers. He did not like the idea of an election in November, for the reason that, as some two hours at least of the polling must take, place in partial, if not entire darkness, it would give great facilities for personations. The question put before the country was whether Catholicism or Protestantism was to have the superiority. ["Oh, oh!"] Members might object to that, so he would say it was whether Ireland was to be pacified or not. It was incumbent on them, therefore, to have a well-selected jury, and to commit the decision of the question to a respectable constituency.
 MR. MARSH  said, he was of opinion that, on the whole, it was much better that this Bill should pass. It was possible that the Bill might be passed in a hurry; but then they would have the advantage of getting a Ministry established sooner. That difficulty even might be got over by the present Ministry resigning at once. The election gentry,  et genus omne 566
 MR. CORRANCE  suggested, but did not move, the insertion of words binding the Revising Barristers to commence their operations on the 14th of September next at latest.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that although it had been inserted by the Select Committee, in the spirit of caution which they had very properly exercised in dealing with the measure, he found, on careful examination, that it was quite unnecessary, and might possibly lead to mischief if permitted to remain in the Bill. The clause proposed to make the 30th section of the 2  Will. Queen
 MR. LEEMAN  said, that the clause was well-considered by the Committee, and he hoped it would be retained.
 MR. AYRTON  thought it would be better to strike out the clause, and give the voters to which it applied the benefit of the general law.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was necessary to omit the clause.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the proposal might seem suitable to Birmingham, which was only one parish, but it would cause great confusion in places where a borough contained several parishes. The clause appeared to be framed in order to save the candidate the expense of making out canvassing books. The result of making the clause permissive would be that some overseers would make out the register on one plan and some on the other. He was told that the overseers in some parishes had made considerable
 568
 MR. AYRTON  thought that the clause would not work unless it was made imperative, or was added as a power to the overseers in addition to the duty which was now imperative. It would not do to have a permissive clause in substitution of the present duty.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he did not think any great difficulty would arise by the overseer carrying out the plan proposed by the clause, or that any serious additional expense would be thrown upon parishes.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he thought it would be much easier and cheaper for the overseer to be allowed merely to copy the rate-book, than to be obliged to arrange the list of name3 in alphabetical order.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, it was necessary at election times that they should be able with facility to turn to the names of the electors, and that could be done only when the list was arranged alphabetically. On the whole, if there was to be a choice between the two methods, it would be better to adhere to the present practice.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he thought the plan, if adopted at all, should only be adopted in those boroughs which consisted of one parish or township.
 MR. FOLJAMBE  rose to move the following new clause:—
 "Where in any Borough the overseers shall, after the twenty-ninth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven, have rated the owner instead of the occupier of any dwelling-house or other tenement, in contravention of 'The Representation of the People Act, 1867,' the occupier of such premises shall, upon duly paying or tendering on or before the twentieth day of July next, the difference, if any, between the amount of poor rate payable on or before the fifth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight, in respect of such premises by such owner, and that which would have been payable by an ordinary occupier thereof, be entitled to be registered as a voter, as fully as if he had been rated and paid all rates in pursuance of the third and seventh sections of the said Act." 569
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  supported the clause proposed by his hon. Colleague, and read a letter from the overseer of Worksop, explaining the circumstances under which between 500 and 600 persons there would be practically disfranchised unless some such clause as that were adopted.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was obvious that the clause was proposed to meet a particular case, and such legislation was always objectionable and dangerous. It was difficult to say whether it would meet that case, and still more difficult to say what its effect would be upon other cases. The persons whose names were said to have been improperly omitted by the overseer had a remedy at the time under the existing statutes, and if they had not then availed themselves of that remedy the passing of the proposed enactment in their favour would be giving them an unfair advantage.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, that the persons to whom the clause referred ought not to be allowed to suffer from the wrongful act of others. He thought that a good deal was to be said for the proposition that when a man whose landlord paid the composition rate, and himself paid the difference, he should have a vote.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, there could be no party feeling in this matter. He conceived that it would be injudicious to pass a clause for the sake of one particular borough, for its operations might extend to other cases to which it would be improper to apply it.
 MR. POWELL  said, he thought it would be inconvenient to introduce the clause into the Bill, inasmuch as such a power was already given in the Local Government Act.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the clause was not a fit one to be incorporated in the present Bill, though it might be a very proper one to be inserted in a rating Bill. This clause, besides, would have no operation in the present year with, respect to registration, as the lists were now practically commenced.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that it would materially interfere with the progress of the proceedings before the Revising Barristers to have a large number of lodgers brought to their Courts to wait and see whether anybody would start up and challenge their votes. As these persons were to have their names in the lists long before the Revising Barristers held their Courts, it was only reasonable that those who wished to challenge the votes of any lodgers should give them notice before the holding of the Registration Courts. He hoped the Home Secretary would consider the expediency of introducing a provision by which notice should be given to lodgers of objections to their claims, without which they should not be compelled to come to the Court.
 MR. BAINES  said, he believed the lodgers were a much more respectable class of people than was at first supposed. He was certain that any clause which compelled the attendance of the lodger at the Court must be amended.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  objected to the suggestion. The effect of it would be to repeal a section in the Act of last Session, which had been deliberately adopted after considerable discussion.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  supported the clause.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he hoped the clause would not be pressed. The subject was deliberately considered and decided last year, and the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. M'Cullagh Torrens), who was much interested in the question, was then an assenting party to the decision then arrived at.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that what the country desired was to have the very best vessels constructed; and the country was disappointed at not having vessels of a light draught of water which, nevertheless, could carry heavy armour plates and guns. Every other maritime Power was building vessels different from those we were building. At Chatham the distress was not so severe as in other dockyards; but there was one class in the dockyard—the rope-makers—who had been rather hardly treated. He should like to ask his noble Friend why no provision was made for the workmen in Chatham Dockyard to dine comfortably? Surely some shed could be constructed in which the men could dine with some sort of comfort. With regard to superannuation allowances, he thought that if a man died just before he became entitled to superannuation allowance, his widow ought to receive some payment out of that fund to which her husband had so long contributed. Since the introduction of iron for shipbuilding the number of accidents had greatly increased, and great complaint was made that no accommodation existed for the men at the hospital, and that they had to contribute out of their own wages towards the expense of the hospital.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he hoped the Committee would allow this Vote to pass, in order that Progress might be reported, with a view to the Registration Bill being proceeded with.
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  asked whether any means existed for identifying the men enrolled in the force?
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  asked a question respecting the appointment of the Director General of the Ordnance, and also wished for information as to the enormous increase of the expenditure, especially in the Accountant General's Department? He trusted that the First Lord would endeavour to find situations at the Admiralty as messengers and porters for seamen who were discharged from the service with good characters. Some of the petty officers would be found quite fit for the smaller clerkships. The Secretary of State for War stated the other night that the experiment of employing non-commissioned officers and men whose terms of service had expired had succeeded very well in the army, and he believed it might be tried in a still greater degree for the navy.
 MR. BOUVERIE  rose to move for Copy of any further Despatches, Telegrams, and Letters between the Secretary of State in Council and the Government of India, respecting the proposed purchase of the works of the East India Irrigation Company, or the advance of funds for the works thereof since July 16, 1867. There were two Bills of an important character before the House relating to the Government of India, affecting the relations between the Home Government and the Indian Government, and the relations between the Secretary of State for India and the Council. The Papers he wished to obtain would, he anticipated, throw an important light upon these questions, and assist them materially in arriving at a sound conclusion, as to the proper mode in which these relations should be estab-
 530 "I think the mortality was greater than was reported. Hundreds died in the fields and out-of the-way places, where no one knew them. If one chanced to cross the country one saw the bodies lying about, and the jackals eating them. I should say, to be within bounds, that about one quarter of the population of Orissa has died. In this neighbourhood, I think the mortality has been about one-third, but I believe in other parts of the province it has not been so severe. But, as respects the general misery and suffering, I do not think it has ever been fully described; it would almost be impossible to exaggerate it. The people bore their misery with extraordinary quiet and submission. Nothing that I have ever read has enabled me to conceive anything equal to this famine. I have known no instance of Hindoos eating dogs, or cats, or cows. But they did cat their own children, when they were dead. I heard a well-authenticated instance, in which a mother and son were found eating a dead child." "There were 18,000 people on my estates; of these 4,700 have died during the famine." 531 532
 MR. LIDDELL  inquired whether the Admiralty had determined upon the amount of remuneration which the shipping masters were to receive for enrolling and watching the movements of the men of this force, seeing that upon their assistance the efficiency of the body greatly depended?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it had been thought highly expedient for the public service that old soldiers should no longer be appointed as park keepers, and he hoped that before long every Royal Park would be placed in the custody of the Metropolitan Police.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, in reply, that no doubt the  British Medical Journal 517
 MR. GODDARD  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council, Whether his attention has been directed to a paragraph emanating from the  British Medical Journal,
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Treaty of Commerce recently in negotiation with Austria has been signed; and, if not, why not; and, whether he will lay upon the Table of the House, the Reports of Mr. Morier and Mr. Mallet, and any other Correspondence relating to the negotiation for the Treaty?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would not be unmindful of the hon. Gentleman's wish, but must frankly tell him that, desiring to bring the Business of the House forward at a reasonable time, he could not really pledge himself to comply with the hon. Gentleman's request.
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker—I rise to move that the Thanks of this House be given to those who planned and accomplished one of the most remarkable military enterprizes of this century. When the invasion of Abyssinia was first mooted it was denounced as a rash enterprize, pregnant with certain peril and probable disaster. It was described, indeed, as one of the most rash undertakings which had ever been recommended by a Government to Parliament. The country was almost unknown to us, or known only as one difficult of access and very deficient in all those supplies which are necessary for an array. Indeed, the Commander of this Expedition had to commence his operations by forming his base on a desolate shore, and by a creating a road to the land he was invading through a wall of mountains. Availing himself for this purpose of the beds of exhausted torrents, he gradually reached a lofty table land—wild and for the most part barren—frequently intersected with mountain ranges of great elevation, occasionally breaking into ravines and gorges that were apparently unfathomable. Yet, over this country, for more than 300 miles, the Commander-in-Chief guided and sustained a numerous host, composed of many thousands of fighting men, as many camp followers, and vast caravans of animals, bearing supplies, more numerous than both. Over this land he guided cavalry and infantry, and—what is perhaps the most remarkable part of the Expedition—he led the elephants of Asia, bearing the artillery of Europe, over African passes which might have startled the trapper and appalled the hunter of the Alps. When he arrived at the base of this critical rendezvous, he encountered no inglorious foe; and if the manly qualities of the Abyssinians sank before the resources of our warlike science, our troops, even after that combat, had to scale a mountain fortress, of which the intrinsic strength was such that it may be fairly said it would have been impregnable to the whole world had it been defended by the man by whom it was assailed. But all these obstacles and all these difficulties and dangers were overcome by Sir
 523 524 525 526
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has placed an argumentative Question on the Paper, which is a very inconvenient course, and one that might lead to discussion. He wishes to know if we
 521
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped that, as the feeling of the Committee evidently was in favour of passing the Vote and reporting Progress, the hon. and learned Gentleman would not offer any opposition to that course.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, considering the repeated personal pledges he has given to the House and the Country to take every means to pass a Bill for the repression of Corrupt Practices at Elections, he does not think it desirable so to arrange the Business of the House as to give precedence to that Bill over others of an ordinary character, if he wishes to redeem the pledges he has made on the subject?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he considered that the examination referred to by the noble Lord, which the messengers had to undergo, went far beyond what such an examination should be. There was a tendency to increase the severity of the examinations beyond the position of those who had to undergo them.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was glad that the efficiency of the force had not been impugned. The question before the House was one merely of account, and the Government had assented to the reduction asked for. Owing to the judicious course which successive Governments had adopted, the feeling of distrust that formerly existed between the men in the Mercantile Marine had given place to one of cordiality. It was no small advantage to have a body of 15,000 or 16,000 men ready to turn out in defence of the country. The Act had passed only in 1859. At the time of the affair of the  Trent 542
 MR. E. C. EGERTON  said, in the absence of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley),
 516
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  explained that he had quoted from a local newspaper, which stated that the letter of
 556
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that he very much agreed with the observations just made by his hon. and learned Friend. As he understood the complaint made, it was not that the ships referred to were sold for "breaking up" with rigging and stores complete, but that they were sold for other service, and sold for considerably less than might be realized by breaking them up in our own dockyards. He would not occupy the time of the Committee by quoting instances in which these disadvantageous sales have been effected; but, if his information was correct, the sale of the timber alone would pay for the cost of breaking up these ships in the dockyards, and the engines would still be available for the purposes of the Government. He might add that at the dockyard into which he had specially enquired (Sheerness), there were ample means for disposing both of timber and metal, and if ships were there broken up, under the eye of responsible officers, much of the old material might be found available for re-use. He would also say, though he could not pretend to speak with authority upon the subject, that it would be a popular, as well as a wise
 553 "The proposal to abandon Sheerness was rather premature;" that "at present he thought it would be unwise, but that they would be able to form a sound opinion when the Chatham extension was completed." 554 "He could only tell them that there was no intention on the part of the present Government of giving up or abandoning Sheerness Dockyard." "He had expressed it as his opinion in the House of Commons, that Sheerness Dockyard ought not to be given up, and that it would be very advantageous to the country in case of war." 555
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he should be prepared at the proper time to defend the continuance of some of these dockyards, and especially Sheerness.
 MR. PEMBERTON  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) had committed two errors. No letter had been addressed by him to the First Lord of the Admiralty with reference to the dockyard at Sheerness, nor did the First Lord of the Admiralty make any communication whatever to him on the subject. But during the course of the election various statements were made as to the intentions of different Governments, and some gentleman, whose name he did not recollect, wrote to the First Lord, asking what the intention was. His recollection of that letter was simply this—it repeated what the First Lord had stated in the House, and that he thought it would be a very-great advantage to have a dockyard in the neighbourhood of the town for the re-fitting of ships. The gentleman to whom the letter was addressed was told that he was at liberty to make what use of it he pleased, and it had been placed in his hands. He had accordingly stated that he believed there was no intention of abandoning the dockyard of Sheerness. If the hon. Member had given him any intimation of his intention to refer to this matter, he would have endeavoured to obtain a copy of the letter; but he very much feared it was not now in existence. The other error which the hon. Member had committed was as to the question which most agitated the minds of electors at the last election; it was no doubt a question of disestablishment, but it was the disestablishment of the Irish Church, not of the dockyard.
 MR. PEMBERTON  wished to ask whether it was the intention of the Admiralty to continue the system of selling the old and useless ships by private tender with their rigging and stores complete, instead of having them broken up in the Dockyard at Sheerness? The loss upon these sales by private tender is very great. By a Return which had recently been printed, it appeared that thirteen ships were sold in the lump, and their estimated value to be broken up was £144,000. They were, in point of fact, sold by private tender for £87,000, and in re-purchasing stores out of these ships the Government paid £38,000; so that all they received for the ships was £49,000, making a loss of £94,000 on the estimated value of the ships. The same Return showed that no less than twenty
 552 Raven Arrow s. d. Raven Arrow
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that there was no doubt considerable objection to the present state of things in that respect in the county of York. The High Sheriff had very onerous duties cast upon him, and perhaps there ought to be two High Sheriffs; but the matter would be considered by the Government.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, it was difficult to deal with a Question such as this, as he did not know what were the reasons given for the production of the Returns. He was not prepared to lay them upon the table, as he did not know for what purpose they were required. He had that day received a document from the Knights of Windsor deprecating any interference with them, and stating they were perfectly content with the mode in which the funds were administered.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he had not had any such applications made to him as his hon. Friend alluded to, nor had he received any notice of the existence of those difficulties, except from the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), who had been kind enough to send him a letter that he had received on the subject. His attention had not been called to any defects in the present law; but the Inspectors in their next Reports would probably take notice of the matter.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that one of the Inspectors having been in town that day he had inquired of him, and he thought there would be Reports on the subject.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the cause of the delay had been that parts of the Correspondence had to be furnished by the Treasury and other parts by the Post Office. The whole of it was now in the hands of the printer, and it would be distributed to hon. Members in a few days.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, the noble Lord (Lord Henry Lennox) had stated that there was a reduction on this Vote of £157,000 this year upon the corresponding Vote of last year. If this had been an absolute saving, no one would have rejoiced at the announcement more than he should have done; but, unfortunately, what was saved on one Vote was more than balanced by the increase of expenditure on other Votes. For instance, Vote 10 showed an increase of £250,000 over the corresponding Vote of last year, and thus upon shipbuilding and repairing there was a total increase of £100,000 over the expenditure of last year. The truth was, that the work, instead of being performed in the dockyards, was transferred to the yards of private contractors on the Tyne or at Liverpool. There was great hardship experienced in consequence of the reduction of the number of men usually employed in Portsmouth, because it was by no means easy for the men thus thrown out of employment to transfer themselves and their families to another part of the country. The Government had now adopted the policy urged upon them last year by the Opposition. The Government commenced last year to build fifty cut-and-run vessels, at a cost of about £1,000,000; they were to be used in cruizing, and not for the purposes of war. Of that number, thirty-seven were to be built in the dockyards, and thirteen by contract. He regretted the work was decided to be done in one year instead of two, because, instead of rendering the cession of these men's labour less sudden, the sudden change had fallen upon them with considerable hardship. At Portsmouth the number of shipwrights was 1,575 in March last, having been considerably increased during the winter, and it had since been gradually reduced, the contemplated number being only 938. A change of policy such as that which had been adopted in having vessels built in private yards ought to have been carried out gradually and with some consideration to the men employed in the dockyards. He thought also that so considerable a reduction having been made in the wages of artificers, the expenses of management and establishment charges should have
 557
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he thought it would be much more convenient to take the decision of the question on Vote 10, where there was a distinct sum for new armour-plated ships. That was the next Vote on which the question arose, and respecting which the hon. Member for Lincoln (Sir. Seely) intended to address the House. He sympathized with his noble Friend (Lord Henry Lennox) in the difficulty in which, he was placed by the unfortunate illness of the First Lord of the Admiralty; but the Committee would admit that no one could have explained the question more clearly, or stated the policy of the Government more intelligibly than the noble Lord had done. As to the alteration proposed in the programme of the year, he thought his noble Friend had done thorough justice to the Controller and the Chief Constructor; and he rejoiced that the Vote had not been passed without the questions being raised and the answers stated as to the first change he had originally offered to the Committee—a proposition to build a broadside ship and one of novel construction by contract, and one of each in the dockyard, instead of two broadsides in the dockyard and two of novel construction out of it; and he therefore approved the altered programme announced, for novel ships in private yards involved heavy extras for experience gained as construction proceeded. It was also judicious to reduce the class of vessels for special purposes from four to three on the completion of the new yacht in substitution for the  Osborne 560
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was glad the hon. and gallant Member had expressed his readiness to accept the reduction. This was a simple matter of account, and he be-
 541
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If it is the intention of the Government to proceed with the Army Estimates on Monday, considering that the Papers connected with the Controller's Department have not been printed?
 MR. CHILDERS  hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) would not press his Motion to a division. The whole subject of the Admiralty ac-
 538
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether he will place upon the Table of the House the Case submitted in 1862 to the Law Officers of the Crown, with their Opinion thereon, upon the Claims of the Captains on the Reserved List?
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  commented on the increased charge for temporary clerks and writers this year as compared with previous years.
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, that the sum for the Naval Reserve was in excess of what was required, and the Vote was going on gradually increasing. In this year there was an increase of £2,958 over the Vote of last year for nominally the same number of men. He observed that more deputy registrars and clerks were employed than during the previous year at a cost of £2,000, and the result was that only thirteen additional men were obtained. During the last three years £80,000 had been expended in matters analogous to this Vote which the House has not assented to. The Vote was not for the Naval Reserve at all. It was a kind of sponge, from which to squeeze money for purposes of which no one knew anything. He moved that the Vote be reduced by £20,000
 MR. SAMUDA  said, the amount of work to be performed in the dockyards this year appeared to be very considerably less than it was last year. Instead of 23,500 tons of shipping to be built, there were only 14,400, being 9,000 tons less than last year. From the declarations of the First Lord of the Admiralty, it appeared that the Government were building two vessels of the  Monitor 558 Warrior Valiant Minotaur "For building two Iron-clad Vessels of the  Audacious
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  suggested that the Vote now before the Committee should be postponed.
 MR. EYKYN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he objects to lay upon the Table of the House, a Return of the Military Knights of Windsor deceased since the appointment of the late and the present Governor, the date of their decease, the dates from which their successors received their pay, the amount of their deductions in pay, the mode in which the deductions were disposed of; also, a Return of all sums applied to the use of the late and present Governors of the Military Knights?
 MR. GRAVES  said, he believed the reduction would not interfere with the efficiency of the force. The commanders of the various drill ships bore the highest testimony to the intelligence and efficiency of the Reserve. They were considered the superiors of the same class of men in the navy. They had broken down the prejudice that formerly existed, and now formed a connecting link between the navy and the Mercantile Marine. If they had done nothing more than this they must be considered to have rendered valuable service to the country. The Reserve had been taken as the cream of the Mercantile Marine, and were highly-skilled men. He thought from ordinary seamen and those under the age and standard of efficiency, especially from the deep-sea fishery men, a second-class Reserve might be formed. The latter consisted of the finest class of men around our coasts, who would be ready to join the Reserve at perhaps £1 a head per annum, and he strongly advised that both of these classes should be utilized. After the  Trent
 MR. GRAVES  said, that as several of the small dockyards must be reduced in a few years it must lead to a corresponding reduction of work at head-quarters. He had given notice of a Motion that would raise the question.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, The cause of the delay in presenting the Correspondence [ordered 12th May] between the West India and Pacific Company and the Treasury and Post Office, relative to the conveyance of Mails to the West Indies?
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he wished to say that he had a letter in his pocket from a passenger in the steamer—["Order!"]
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he understood that it was not competent for any Member to increase a Vote.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  took exception to the word "patronage," as used by the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty. It was an odious word, and there should be no such thing. He also complained that the Civil Lord was the only official of his grade who was not provided with a house.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he objected to the time of the House being wasted and hon. Members being kept out of their beds in consequence of certain hon. Gentlemen persisting in delivering lectures to the House on this question after the Government had intimated their willingness to assent to the proposed reduction in the Vote.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If his attention has been called
 518 Hants Telegraph:— "The steamer  Princess of Wales,
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Not to displace the Ejectments Suspension (Ireland) Bill, which stands No. 1 on the Orders of the Day for the Evening Sitting of Tuesday the 7th instant?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to know whether the Inspectors were instructed to report upon it?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, the expenses went on from year to year increasing, and he did not understand why it should be so, considering the small number of ships which were in commission. He would not press his Motion.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, the expenses of the Admiralty Office had gone on increasing ever since the year 1858, when they stood at £149,000. They had now reached the sum of £182,364, the net increase for the present year being £6,346. He objected to the large number of persons employed in the Admiralty Office, not to the amount of pay of each. Surely it was quite unnecessary that 489 persons should be employed in this Office. The noble Lord had stated that we should now require fewer ships, and consequently 2,500 fewer men. If they were decreasing their ships and men, how could they need a greater number of clerks? The Press, the public, and the House agreed in declaring that the navy cost too much for the results; and he did not see why the expenses of the Admiralty Office should go on increasing to this extent. If the naval expenditure became more and more in this way the burden would soon become intolerable. He moved that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £6,300.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he was desirous that the Estimates should be prepared in greater detail.
 MR. DU CANE  explained, that an enormous increase had arisen in the work thrown on the Accountant General's Department by the Greenwich Hospital Act and by various other causes, and that it had been found necessary to divide that Department into two branches, with a deputy Accountant General to each.
 MR. POWELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has reason to believe, from representations made to him by Factory Inspectors or otherwise, that local authorities fail to discharge the duty imposed upon them by Section 18 and other provisions of the Workshop Regulation Act, 1867, under which they are bound to enforce the Act; whether difficulties have arisen in cases where the local authority as described by the Act is "the Vestry or Select Vestry," and whether modifications of the Law are, in his judgment, there necessary, in order to invest the local authority with powers to carry out the Act and to raise the funds requisite for that purpose; and, if so, whether it be the intention of the Government to amend the Law during the present Session, with a view to render the local authority more efficient in these cases?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, referring to his opinion that it is desirable to give Government employment to deserving old soldiers, it is true that the custody of the Parks, hitherto under the park keepers, almost all old soldiers, is about to be taken from them and placed under the Metropolitan Police; and whether, if this alteration is considered necessary in Hyde Park, it must be carried out in the other Parks, where the park keepers have hitherto done their duty perfectly well, and the custody of which afforded employment, with a small remuneration, to many meritorious old soldiers?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would therefore put his Question to the First Commissioner of Works.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he had promised the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire (the Marquess of Hartington) that the Papers in question would be laid on the table in good time before Vote 18 was moved. The Papers had been laid on the table on Tuesday, but he was sorry to say it had been found impossible to complete the printing in time to allow them to be distributed to Members before Saturday next. He could not, therefore, bring on the Vote on Monday consistently with his promise to the noble Lord. Although, therefore, the Army Estimates might stand on the Paper for Monday, he should not, if it was the wish of the hon. Gentleman, proceed with them on that day.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that his hon. Friend had quite correctly expressed the views he had expressed with respect to the employment of old soldiers; but his regard for old soldiers did not give him any authority over the Parks. He must refer his hon. Friend to the First Commissioner of Works for any information as to the future custody of the Parks.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that as soon as the statement to which the question referred appeared in the newspapers, a communication was sent to the Assistant Adjutant General at Portsmouth, desiring him to inquire into and report upon the facts; and he now held in his hand the answer returned by Lieutenant Colonel Peel, which was as follows:—.
 "Portsmouth, July 1. "Sir,—In accordance with instructions received in your telegram of this day's date, I have the honour to forward for the information of his Royal Highness Commanding-in-Chief the accompanying statements of Lieutenant Colonel Lovell, R.A., and Captain Girardot, R.A., the officers under whom the artillery practice from Fort Monckton was conducted on Thursday morning, the 25th of June, 1868. These officers both state most positively that no shot fired from Fort Monckton passed within 600 yards of any steamer during the practice. In consequence of the hour at which the telegram was received (5.20 p.m.) I have not been able to procure from the editor of the  Hants Telegraph Terrible, "Fort Monckton, July 1, 1868. "Sir,—In reply to your memorandum of this day's date, requesting a full report upon a statement contained in the  Hants Telegraph 519 "I was in command of No. 7 Battery, 6th Brigade, Royal Artillery, during the hours of gun practice, from 9.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. on Thursday last, the 26th of June. The firing was conducted under the superintendence of Lieutenant Colonel Lovell, R.A. The greatest precautions were taken to observe the orders regarding the distance of vessels passing from the range, and I most confidently state that no shot was fired when any steamer was within 500 yards of the range." Hants Telegraph
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had not expected that the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, which was at the bottom of the list of Motions upon going into Committee of Supply, would have been reached at such an early hour, and therefore he had not obtained any special information upon the subject. He, however, was prepared to give a general answer to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman. In the first place, he had no objection to the production of all despatches and telegrams which had passed upon the subject. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have thought it necessary to comment in the terms which he had employed on the fact that it had not been deemed right to communicate to the Directors of the Irrigation Company the despatch of the Governor General proposing certain terms for the purchase of the works of the Company. He believed the right hon. Gentleman would acknowledge that if it was the duty of the Council for India to offer less liberal terms than those mentioned in that despatch, it would certainly not have been their duty to have accompanied that proposal with a communication in which higher terms were mentioned, for the effect of such a course would simply have been to throw dirt on their own offer. The question really resolved itself into this—whether they ought to have at once acted upon the judgment of the Indian Government, or have exercised the right of judging for themselves? Now, Parliament had distinctly imposed upon the Secretary of State for India in Council the duty of superintending the expenditure of the revenue and finances of India, and as there was a difference of upwards of £100,000 in the terms mentioned in the despatch and the offer actually made, he
 534 535 arrière pensèe
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE , in reference to the question of the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) said, that the payment by the Board of Trade was made according to the work done. This was, as he had explained the year before, represented by marks bearing a money value. At the end of the year a Return was made by each registrar—the number of marks was then calculated, and payment made accordingly. If there was any surplus, it was distributed as an extra gratuity among those registrars who had shown most zeal in the service.
 MR. BAZLEY , in seconding the Motion, recommended that large basins or reservoirs, connected by canals, should be made in India for the purpose of storing the water and affording water communications throughout the country. Such works would be of immense importance to the development of the resources of the country, and would prevent a recurrence of that frightful calamity under which the district in question had recently suffered.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he would beg-to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why non-combatant Officers when appointed to mounted corps are compelled to pay ration stoppages, although they received no mounted pay?
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he can inform the House what course has been adopted by the Austrian Government for preventing the introduction of rinderpest from Hungary or Galicia into Austria?
 LORD STANLEY  said, he regretted that he was not in a position to answer the Question of the hon. Member satisfactorily. A Bill had passed the Lower House of the Austrian Legislature to prevent the introduction of the cattle plague, but he had not seen a copy of it. He had, however, written to Vienna at the request of the Privy Council Office to obtain a copy, which he hoped to receive in a few days.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, having regard to the state of Public Business, and the period of the Session, he would object to substitute a measure having a temporary effect so far as the Indian Council in this Country is concerned, for the proposed Government of India Amendment Bill?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had listened with great concern to the closing sentences of the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Corrance's) speech, and it astounded him not a little to hear one, who rose as the representative of what was termed the agricultural interest, assuming the attitude of a suffering and persecuted man. What had he suffered? He had suffered the abstraction of the power of supporting his own industry at; the expense of others, and had also experienced the great evil of obtaining under; the influence of free competition a higher range of prices for almost every production in which he was interested than the system of Protection afforded. The matter of the Bill was complicated enough in itself, so I that there was no need to embarrass its consideration still further by attempts to revive the animosities of a by-gone controversy. At the close of the Session they were just at the beginning of the discussion of the details of a Bill involving considera
 620 621 622 623 624
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question before them was whether they should go into Committee on that Bill and consider the difficulties just raised, among others, or whether they should adopt an Amendment which would virtually get rid of the whole matter. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) told them there were two vital questions, the largest of which was whether they should proceed by way of legislation at all, or should leave the whole of those great and difficult subjects in the hands of the Privy Council. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had carefully avoided giving the slightest opinion on the question, aye or no, whether there ought to he a separate market. Supposing the Privy Council came to the conclusion that there should be a separate market, how was it possible for the Privy Council to carry it out and to deal with all those difficulties which the right hon. Gentleman stated, and which the Select Committee, sitting for no end of time, had attempted to solve? That was almost a conclusive answer to the suggestion that those things should be left altogether to the discretion of the Privy Council. Had the country reason to be satisfied with the power of the Privy Council? What happened when the cattle plague visited this country? They had a Privy Council then, which he dared say doubted, as the two right hon. Gentlemen opposite probably doubted now, whether that disease came from abroad. [Mr. MILNER GIBSON was understood to indicate dissent.] The right hon. Gentleman shook his head. That was some comfort, at all events. The other right hon. Gentleman was still mute as far as shaking heads went. But the immense majority of the people of this country had no such doubt. And how did they suffer by the want of action and the vacillation of the Privy Council for six or seven months, before Parliament and the voice of the country compelled them to take those measures which they might have taken beforehand? The Privy Council began by proclamation to stamp out the plague, but they had not the heart to go on with it. And why? Because they saw the great expense it would entail; and so they allowed the disease to spread over the country, to the great injury and even the ruin of many persons. They did nothing efficacious until Parliament met. They were now told they ought not to refer to Free Trade at all; but last week the right hon. Member for Ash ton brought up
 626 627 628
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he desired to remind the House that the whole country, and not the metropolis alone, was interested in a proposal which was founded upon the principle of dealing with foreign cattle, however healthy, in a different manner from the way in which other cattle were dealt with. They were going to legislate in a more permanent form than by Act of Parliament, because by building this market they were about to lay down
 639
 MR. MOFFATT  then moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. GRANT DUFF : My original purpose was to have called the attention of the House at some length to the Report on Scotch Burgh and Middle Class Schools, which has been laid on the table this year by the same Commissioners who last year reported upon elementary schools in Scotland. When I put my Notice on the Paper, however, hoped that, before my Motion came on, we should have had the advantage of listening to a full discussion of that very remarkable document which the Schools Inquiry Commissioners for England have recently given us—a document which will, I am sure, as soon as the country has got its mind sufficiently clear of electoral cares to give an earnest attention to it, be recognized as a most valuable contribution to the better ordering and happiness of this great nation. In that hope I have been disappointed, if, indeed, I can say that I really am disappointed that a Parliament—wearied with the agitations of a Session during which Members have been morally tossed in a blanket, to a degree which the nerves of few can stand—should not have its last hours embittered by being questioned as to its opinion on the details or even the principles of secondary education. Feeling, however, as I
 645 "In consideration of the aid thus contributed, all Burgh Schools and the buildings and offices of such schools should be examined every year by one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools, who should report both as regards the efficiency of the teaching and the state of the buildings and offices. The Inspectors should have like access to Burgh Schools for these purposes, as is possessed in relation to elementary schools." "In the notes of Particulars of Inquiry, which we were instructed to distribute among the teachers in the different schools, the question bearing on this subject is in these words— 646 'Would it in your opinion be an advantage or otherwise if the Burgh Schools were examined annually, and reported on by independent examiners?' To this question we have received 105 answers from teachers in all the important schools in Scotland. Of these answers, 84, or 80 per cent, are in the affirmative, 11 are in the negative, and 10 are doubtful—that is to say, 80 per cent of the best teachers in the Public Middle Class Schools consider that it would be of advantage to their schools if they were examined annually, and reported on by independent examiners. Nothing can be more satisfactory than this result, and there is no feature connected with the inquiry which reflects greater credit upon the teachers throughout Scotland than this desire which they have expressed to exhibit the true condition of their schools, and to secure the benefit of independent examination. It is of a piece with the perfect courtesy with which they received us when we visited the schools, and with the liberal manner in which they gave us every assistance in arriving at an estimate of the work done in the schools. It will be remarked that there is no mention of any recompense or return in exchange for the liberty of examination. They say simply and definitely it will be of advantage to the schools if they be examined." "In cases where, from the want of a Burgh School, the Parochial School discharges the functions of a Secondary School, we recommend that special grants should be made to the master by the Treasury in order to encourage the study of the higher subjects." "The connection between the Parochial and Burgh Schools and the University is therefore one essential element in our scheme of national education. The only way in which this clement can be preserved is by insisting that the teachers in every Burgh or Secondary School, and many of the Parochial Schools, should be capable of instructing their pupils, not only in the subjects common to all Primary Schools, but in the elements of Latin, mathematics, and Greek. To be satisfied with any standard of competency inferior to this would be to lower the character of education which has hitherto prevailed in this country,
 647 "Excepting in these particulars, we do not recommend that further grants of public money should be made on account of Burgh Schools in Scotland, nor any other alteration in their management or superintendence." 648 649 corps d'elite
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the questions to which the hon. Gentleman had called attention were of great importance to those interested in education in general, and in Scotch education in particular. As, however, no measure founded upon the Reports of the Commissioners and sub-Commissioners had been introduced this Session, and as a great deal of other Business was now before the House, he would not enter into the subject at any great length. The Reports presented last year on elementary education disclosed a state of affairs in the urban districts with which he should have attempted to deal this Session had not the House been so fully occupied with other questions. They showed, however, that in the rural districts elementary education, so far as regarded quality, was in a very satisfactory condition, though there might
 650 651 652
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the salaries of the schoolmasters in Aberdeenshire were exceedingly low, ranging generally from £40 to £70 a year, even with the forty-five teachers who participated in the Milne bequest; and in November, 1866, in forty parishes where the teachers did not parti-
 653
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, be rose to call the attention of the House to the services of Officers, Seamen, and Marines of Her Majesty's Navy, who had not receive decorations in accordance with Admiralty Circulars of June, 1847, 1848, and 1858, which awarded medals to survivors in actions since 1793, a period over fifty years; and to ask, whether Honorary Rewards, as understood by above Circulars, for Gallant Services are to be discontinued? The manner in which all such rewards in the Royal Navy had been bestowed during the last thirty years, had gone far to destroy the value which they ought to possess. This was especially the case in the Syrian, China, and Russian Wars, where many received them without being under fire, or even within hearing of any engagement, really gallant services, meanwhile of various kinds, having been passed over without any recognition. The Admiralty, upon the 7th of June, 1847, issued a circular with reference to the granting of medals, and had this rule been fairly carried out great heart burnings and dissatisfaction would have been prevented. But in the wars which followed there were examples of two medals being worn, for the Black Sea and Baltic, the wearer of which might never have been under fire, and thousands of men in the transport service and in blockading ships received this medal who had never been within sound of an enemy's gun. There would have been no injustice in excluding ships not actually engaged, as no medals were given in the long war with France for blockading or transport service. Even the ships of Nelson's fleet who were absent while the battle of Trafalgar was ought, but returned in time to assist the disabled ships, did not receive the Trafalgar clasp. But the unfairness of the present system would be shown when compared with gallant actions for which no medal had ever been given, although the deeds themselves were well known and appreciated in naval history. Take, for instance, such cases as the attack on the pirate schooner  Zaragorana Tyne 668 Black Joke Marinerito Black Joke.
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  resuming, said, he would not occupy the attention of the House long. He did not press for an immediate reply from the Government, but would rest satisfied with a promise that the matter should be attended to.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that in the absence of his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty, he was unable to give his hon. and gallant Friend a definite Answer to the inquiry he had addressed to the Government respecting naval decorations; but he would do so on Tuesday if the Question were repeated. The subject was one which had engaged the attention of several Boards of Admiralty, and he would not fail to bring the matter under the notice of the present Board.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was greatly surprised at the course taken by hon. Members. In the first place, an hon. and gallant Member was simply calling attention to a subject, and no Motion was before the House except that the Speaker leave the Chair. The Speaker waited some time, and then put the Question most distinctly that he should leave the Chair, which was carried, for no one objected to it, and he left the Chair in the ordinary course.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not given a very accurate description of what had passed. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Henry Lennox) was in conversation with Mr. Speaker at the close of the speech of the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Mackinnon); but it was impossible for the House to know the nature of the conversation, and he thought that at least Mr. Speaker had taken hon. Members by surprise; he thought that the hon. Members whose names were on the Paper ought to have been called on before the Question was put. Without any notice or understanding of what course Mr. Speaker was about to take, the right hon. Gentleman left the Chair, although he called the right hon. Gentleman's attention when he was on the step of the Chair, He thought there ought to be an understanding between hon. Members and the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought the right hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel French) was mistaken in his recollection. So far as his (Mr. Disraeli's) experience went—and it was not inconsiderable—the Speaker had followed the usual course. It had never been the practice to call the names of Members
 670
 MR. OTWAY  said, that though he was inconvenienced by what had occurred, yet he was perfectly willing to submit with good humour. There was, however, no opportunity, except on Fridays, for private Members to bring any matter under the attention of the House, Tuesdays having now been taken from them, so that they had only three more nights this Session. He roust say that the Speaker distinctly put the Question that he should leave the Chair, and he (Mr. Otway) remained quiet, thinking that the right hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel French) was about to rise. The Prime Minister was willing to give every facility he could to private Members to bring on their Business, and therefore he would make the small return of offering no obstruction to the progress of Public Business.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that on Tuesdays every Motion was a substantive Motion put from the Chair, and the practice was for the Speaker to call upon every Member to make his Motion. But on Friday there was technically only one Motion, and the various Notices were merely Amendments to the Motion that the Speaker do leave the Chair. It was then "each man for himself."
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he had erroneously expected that Mr. Speaker would have called upon each Member having Notices on the Paper.
 COLONEL SYKES  lamented that he had to address the House at that late hour (a few minutes to twelve o'clock), when, after a lengthened sitting, he could not hope to command its attention. Time was when Mr. Brotherton used to move the adjournment of the House at midnight, and it would be well for the interests of the country if the practice were resumed, particularly on nights when Estimates were proposed. He would prefer postponing his Motion; but, if the House wished it, he would proceed! ["Go on."] Well, then, he rose to move that the salary of the Envoy and Chief Superintendent at Pekin be put on the same footing as that of the Envoy Extra-ordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary and Consul General in Japan, and said he should lament exceedingly if it were thought that in making this Motion he desired to depreciate the services of Sir Rutherford Alcock, our Envoy in Pekin. The votes for diplomatic salaries had gone on increasing year by year. There was a net increase of £16,632 this year for the diplomatic service of China, Japan, and Siam, the total amount being £100,983 last year and £117,615 for the coming year. Colonel Crossmnn had moreover reported in favour of building houses for the diplomatic, judicial, and consular services at an expense of £171,402, and there was in addition a sum of £7,500 to be asked for the purchase of a wharf for the Admiralty at Shanghai. He contended that the salary of £6,000 per annum was now disproportionate to the; duties of the Envoy. There was no such thing as an Executive Government in China. The Emperor was a boy of twelve years of age, in the guidance of two women—the widows of the last Emperor—the provinces were in the hands of viceroys who had enough to do to hold their own against
 672
 LORD STANLEY  said, he could hardly think the hon. and gallant Gentleman was in earnest in making that proposition. [Colonel SYKES: Quite.] Nobody understood Chinese affairs better than the hon. and gallant Member; but when he urged that the salaries of our Ministers at Pekin and in Japan should be the same, he forgot that our commercial interest was exactly ten times greater in China than it was in Japan. That was one ground of the difference between the salaries of the two Ministers. Again, China was a very distant country, and every article of European comfort was very expensive at Pekin, where there were no hotels, and they could
 673 de facto
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, the mission appealed to be altogether one of a very expensive character. He objected to the largeness of the Vote, and still more to its increase year after year. £172,000 was a heavy sum per annum to pay for China. There were abundance of Scotchmen in China seeking situations, and there would be no difficulty in finding men at less salaries than were now paid.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he hoped the hon. and gallant Member would not press his Amendment to a division. The sum proposed was by no means too great for a Minister in China.
 COLONEL SYKES  then moved that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £500, the salary of the Vice Consul at Taku. The place, he said, consisted of a little more than a mud shore and a few huts, and literally contained no house in which an European gentleman could reside. There were three Consuls at Tien-Tsin, and a Vice Consul at Taku. The three former were absent, and the work of the four had to be done by the Vice Consul at Taku. The services of the latter could very well be dispensed with.
 LORD STANLEY  pointed out that Taku was the port of Tien-Tsin, and that the last Returns showed that ninety-two British ships had been cleared and ninety-one entered there. The trade, which was a glowing trade, was only just beginning to be developed, and a salary of £500 a year to the person who looked after our interests
 674
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  objected to the payment of sums of money to Noblemen for going to Russia and Austria to invest the Sovereigns of those countries with the Order of the Garter, and moved that the Vote be reduced by £2,500.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought the expenses of these official ceremonies were very extravagant. The Persian Boundary Commission, he believed, was in a state of suspended animation as regarded everything but the charge for which it appeared on the Estimates. He observed that a charge of £478 was made for the extraordinary expenses of the mission at Frankfort. There was a large number of Englishmen there, and there were also great commercial interests requiring the attention of the Consul, who received no pay. He thought that the whole system of unpaid Consuls was bad.
 LORD STANLEY  said that it would, no doubt, be more satisfactory to have all Consuls paid; but if the system of paying all Cousuls were introduced, the House must make up its mind to increase the Estimates by something like £100,000. He had been in hopes that they had heard the last of the Persian Boundary Commission, but some delay had arisen within the last year, and he could only say that he trusted it would not again appear on the Estimates. With respect to the investiture of Foreign Sovereigns with the Order of the Garter, he observed that that was an international compliment, and it was the practice of all the great Powers of Europe reciprocally to confer similar compliments.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he feared that when, after a Morning's Sitting, the House resumed at nine, hon. Members were in danger of supposing that twelve o'clock was midnight, and feeling as if they had been sitting for a long time, whereas they were in fact only commencing the Public Business. He hoped that they might be allowed to proceed.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : This is a proof of the inconvenience of sitting at two o'clock.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY : The right hon. Gentleman does not attend here at eleven o'clock and sit on Committee till four.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : I hope the hon. Baronet will allow these last three Votes of Class V. to be taken.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  assented.
 MR. NEVILLE GRENVILLE , in rising to move that Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of
 676
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  seconded the Amendment of the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass). He believed that the House ought to take every opportunity in its power of discouraging the bribery and other malpractices which so extensively prevailed at elections. He protested against the notions that the amount of corruption was to be considered with relation to the size of the constituency, and that where one member of a family had been unseated for corruption, another member of the same family should step into the seat and profit by the bribery.
 MR. ADAM  explained that the Motion for the issue of a Writ which he had placed on the Paper had been withdrawn out of deference to a general feeling on that side of the House against such a course being adopted, and he trusted that the Motion would not now be pressed.
 MR. HOWES  said, that as Chairman of the Committee by whom the validity of the late election was decided, he would beg to remind the House that the evidence taken by the Committee had not yet been laid on the table. The Committee had, it was true, reported that bribery did not appear
 678
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he concurred in the remarks of the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Howes). He had always deprecated any transfer of jurisdiction with regard to Election Petitions, and he thought the Committee in the Bristol case had given an illustration of the fairness which characterized the present tribunal. He protested, however, against the Act of Parliament under which Election Petitions were tried, and according to which it was almost impossible to fix any blame upon the candidate. The poorer classes were dealt with readily enough; not so with the classes above them. If the poorer classes bribed and received bribes, where did the money come from? Still he felt convinced that Mr. Miles, and all the family of the Mileses, were incapable of countenancing bribery. He hoped Her Majesty's Government were not making a party move of this question. He thought Her Majesty's Government ought not to countenance the issue of a Writ for Bristol. Nothing could be gained by having a Member in the
 679
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that while hoping to see Mr. Miles returned on a future occasion, he thought it was unreasonable to expect that he should go through a contest in order to fill the seat for two or three weeks. He should therefore vote for the Amendment.
 MR. NEVILLE GRENVILLE  said, he was willing, in deference to the opinion of hon. Members, to withdraw his Motion. He denied, however, the existence in Bristol of violence or Saturnalia.
 MR. GILPIN  said, he felt in rather a curious position as a supporter of this re-
 643
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  expressed his surprise that the hon. and learned Baronet should ask the House of Commons to pass a Resolution of a most extraordinary character merely because Resolutions of a similar nature had been passed in the reign of William III., laying down as a constitutional practice what the Courts of Law had ever since consistently denied. There were few things in the law which could not be contradicted by an ingenious advocate; but, as far as legal authorities could establish a principle, it had been laid down beyond all dispute and question that in cases of treason and felony the grant of a writ of error was not  ex debilo justitiœ ex gratiâ 666 "If the Attorney General wished for his private satisfaction to know how, supposing this Court had the supreme jurisdiction which he possesses, we should have exorcised the jurisdiction, I, for one, have no objection to say that I should have done as he did, and have refused the writ." Fortescue Salkeld, Borroughs ex gratiâ ex debito justitiœ
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he rose to call attention to the services of the troops engaged in the late New Zealand War. In so doing he was conscious that the recollection of these services had been to a great effaced by the Abyssinian campaign, to the troops engaged in which the House had yesterday paid a graceful and grateful compliment. The war in New Zealand might be traced back to the campaigns of 1845 and 1846, but the principle interest attached of course to those commenced in the Waikato districts in 1863, and ending in the submission of their hostile tribes in 1866. The late war in New Zealand was, to some extent, unpopular in this country, and might have been impolitic. It certainly was very costly, but he would not discuss those questions. A soldier or sailor had nothing to do with politics; his duty was to go where he was sent, and to fight when he was ordered, and if he did his duty well; he was entitled to his reward. Everyone would admit that the troops went through all the hardships and vicissitudes of a well-fought campaign. It was frequently urged that the medal should be granted only for services against a foreign enemy, but this rule had been departed from in some no table instances—such as the Indian Mutiny and the Kaffir War; the latter especially bearing a great analogy to the New Zealand campaign. In the case of the superior I officers engaged in New Zealand recognition had been made of their services to the following extent:—Two Generals had been made Knights Commanders of the Bath;
 641 642
 LOUD EUSTACE CECIL  said, he thought that this was a real question of hardship, and he feared that we had not been in the habit of rewarding our troops in the way they had a right to expect. He was quite sure if this subject were considered by the House justice would be done. After all, a bit of metal or a ribbon was not of much intrinsic value, but in the eyes of the soldier and his family it was viewed with much pride, as a certificate that he had deserved well of his country. He hoped that no petty notions of economy would stand in the way of those decorations being granted to a number of gallant men who had done great service to their country. They had just spent £5,000,000 on the Abyssinian War, and he hoped they would not refuse few hundreds for the purpose of giving these men their well-earned decorations.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU , in reply, said, that the reason why the Report for 1868 of the Committee of Council on Education had not been published until after the Education Vote was asked for was that the Vote was taken this year many weeks earlier than usual. The Report of the Science and Art Department would be published in a few days. The Report of the Medical Officer of Privy Council had been delayed in consequence of the coloured engravings, but it would shortly be in the hands of Members.
 MR. AYRTON  (who spoke amidst loud cries of "Divide!") said, that in the course of the debate, which had lasted two days, certain questions of general policy had been raised, and yet no Member of the Cabinet had risen to express the views of the Government with regard to them. Under these circumstances the adjournment of the debate was the only course which could be adopted. He was not one of those who were against the agricultural party; and the noble Lord who introduced this measure said that he (Mr. Ayrton) was the father of the Bill. He certainly had a right to be heard, but he wished to hear a Member of the Cabinet, no Member of which had given an opinion on this subject, nor was any Cabinet Minister present.
 MR. DISRAELI : I regret very much my right hon. Friend the Secretary for War is not present, because he would speak with more authority than I can on this subject; what are the reasons of his absence at this particular hour—whether he is at New Zealand or not—I will not now inquire. But in considering this question I am sure the House will in candour remember that the New Zealand War was originated and conducted to a conclusion not under the present Government, and that therefore we are not responsible for any neglect of the troops engaged, or for any deficiency of feeling in the matter of recognizing the very great things those troops accomplished. Regarding these very severe colonial struggles, which perhaps too frequently occur, we must always remember that the merits of those engaged are not to be estimated merely by the result of the operations. Those who are engaged in a great European struggle or Imperial war have that excitement to sustain them which is produced by a consciousness of the considerable circumstances with which they are connected, and the public recognition of their services in the journals of Europe. A soldier engaged under such circumstances is sustained by the feeling that an admiring world and a grateful country are applauding his deeds, and will offer him the tribute of reward and praise, and this he feels is some compensation for the great hazards and endurance he is called on to undergo. But not less heroic qualities are requisite in connection with these more obscure encounters, and I think it was very wise on the part of the Government to recognize the conduct of the troops engaged in the campaigns of the Kaffir War. The noble Viscount who introduced this question, with that propriety which always characterizes his proceedings in this House, has called our attention to the ample recogni
 644
 MR. READ  said, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goschen), that although we could not do all we might wish, that was no reason why we should not do all we could. The metropolis must be viewed exceptionally in this matter, because no less than 70 per cent of the cattle imported into England was sent to London, and it was only in the metropolis that foreign cattle, save Spanish and Portuguese, mixed with our home stock. London, he believed, at present enjoyed the privilege of importing cattle not only from Denmark, but from every portion of the globe, and he held in his hand a Return which would show the right hon. Gentleman that, instead of Denmark furnishing a quarter of the whole supply of foreign cattle imported into this country during the three years ending December last, only 23,000 out of 698,000 cattle imported from abroad came from that country.
 MR. READ : The right hon. Gentleman had complained that the market would not be ready for two years and a half. Well, considering that markets could not be created by the stroke of a fairy's wand, he did not regard that period as being anything unusual, though he would at the same time remark that if this Bill were rejected it might be three years and a half instead of two years and a half before the market could be completed. Now, in this matter he could not help thinking that the Corporation had acted in a very pitiful and pettish manner. They first said that there could not be any profit from the market, but directly it was urged that the profits,
 637 638
* MR. CORRANCE : During the long and able address of my right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Milner Gibson), he referred to me as one partially responsible for the Bill which is now before the House. He has some right to do so, I admit; for on several occasions I have both urged its adoption, and advocated the principle upon which it rests. At the commencement of this Session I expressed my satisfaction at its introduction, in a paragraph in the Queen's Speech. Upon Committee I have given its main provisions my support, both personally and as President of one of those Chambers to which he alludes, he asks me to show cause for this in my place. As far as my humble powers go, he shall have no cause to complain of my reticence in such respect. Nevertheless, in re-opening a debate of so much importance, there are some considerations which press upon me with unusual weight. It seems to me that I have undertaken too much, at least if it is held necessary that I should follow in detail all the arguments the hon. Member has put forth. The ground he covered was immense—Spain, France, Portugal, Denmark and Barking Creek, with accompanying statistics, facts and figures appropriate to each. The right hon. Member for the City of London tells us that a lengthy statement must be answered at length. Why then I pity the House; but, as far as I am concerned, let the House be re-assured my remarks on each topic shall be brief. I shall impose limits on myself. I will not go to Spain or Portugal, or Denmark, or Barking Creek. I will not go into the details of this Bill, nor follow my right hon. Friend into the technical objections he takes. I leave this to more able hands than myself. It is always more pleasant to agree than to differ with my right hon. Friend, and I do agree with him up to a certain point. What is the nature of the Amendment he makes? He affirms a
 612 laissez faire 613 614 laissez faire 615 616 "Rinderpest is not a disease of to-day. It is an old disease, and when we deliberate upon its prevention or limitation, we must not forget its history. And what does that history prove? It proves that the malady spreads as a contagious disease over the West and South of Europe, coming from the East, and this happens always at a time when learned men start the question. Does rinderpest really spread by means of a contagion, or does it not? Does it develop primarily? And when this question, emanating from learned men, excited attention in any country, it was always a misfortune for that country, France, Holland, and England can testify to this." 617 Will Anne Alabamas "In my right hon. Friend's mind political economy seems to stand for a set of practical maxims. It is not a science. It is not a theory of the manner in which causes produce effects. It is a set of practical rules, and these practical rules are indefeasible. Now, so far from being a set of rules to be applied without regard for times, or places, or circumstances, the function of political economy is to enable us to find the rules which ought to govern any state of circumstances with which we have to deal, which are never the same in any two cases. My right hon. Friend has been very plain spoken, and I will be plain spoken too. Political economy has many enemies, but its worst enemies are its friends. It is such modes of argument as this that has made political economy so thoroughly unpopular with a large and not the least philanthropic portion of the people of England. In my hon. Friend's mind political economy seems to exist as a bar, even to the fair consideration of anything that is proposed for the benefit of the economic condition of any people, in any but the old ways." 618 abattoirs 619
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that an influential deputation had waited upon him to urge the appointment of a Royal Commission, and the subject would not be lost sight of. Some documents were about to be laid before the Government with a view of seeing what steps should be taken in the matter.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he had already stated his opinion that it was a very objectionable state of things that any one High Sheriff should have elections to conduct for the three
 610
 MR. CLIVE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Her Majesty's Government have determined to recommend the appointment of a Royal Commission to report on the mode of conducting medico-legal inquiries as to the operation of the Sanitary Laws?
 MR.GOSCHEN  said, he hoped he should receive the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured to show the interest which the metropolis had in this matter. It was one of those questions which brought home to the great centres of population how numerically weak they were in that House. Hitherto no one connected with the metropolis had enjoyed the opportunity of being heard. They must watch this Bill most jealously, and sec that the great supply of foreign cattle required by the wants of the metropolis was not cut off. For the consumption of the metropolis no less than 68 per cent of the foreign cattle imported, and 72 per cent of the foreign sheep were required; and of the cattle slaughtered in London it was calculated that 42 per cent of the whole was foreign. The restrictions in foreign trade had seriously interfered with the supply, and if still stronger restrictions were imposed, a still greater diminution must be expected. The experiment now proposed was to be made not at the expense of the agricultural districts, but of London consumers and ratepayers. It was said that the Government wished to try the effect of the system first in the metropolis; but the metropolis had a right to ask the Government how they were going to deal with the other ports afterwards. The notion of the Government evidently was that the door at London was to be shut while the doors at the other ports were to be left open to inspection. The Government permitted Spanish and Portuguese, and soon they would permit Danish cat tie to be landed at all ports of the kingdom, except London; but he wanted to know why the latter City, with its vast population, was to be deprived of its foreign meat in order that the metropolis might continue to be the emporium of the cattle trade of the country. The noble Lord said that if this measure were
 632 633 cordon 634 vice versâ 635 636
 MR. GOSCHEN  pointed out the fact that a Return of the cattle imported during the last eight years showed that on the average the imports from Denmark were 25 per cent of the number imported.
 MR. JACOB BRIGHT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he had heard with great astonishment the lecture delivered by the right hon. and learned Gentleman to the hon. and learned Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) as to his course of proceeding in that House, and the Notices he had from time to time placed upon its records. He (Mr. O'Beirne) was quite at a loss to understand by what right the hon. and learned Gentleman so presumed upon his position. The hon. and learned Baronet had gained for himself the respect and regard of both sides of the House, and was not open to such remarks as had been made. He (Mr. O'Beirne) did not intend to treat this subject as a matter of law merely. He was not disposed to follow his hon. and learned Friend, by whom the question had been introduced, into the pages of Blackstone or the long-past Resolutions of Parliament. He desired rather to look upon it in a popular point of view, and to auk the House to consider what the impressions of the public must be if such proceedings as those stated by his hon. and learned Friend were permitted. There could be no doubt that the policy of Parliament had always been to protect the accused against anything that could bear the character of injustice, and
 663 664
 MR. O'BEIRNE : It seemed to him that the fact of the second memorial made the case only the stronger against the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman, who, having refused the first application, had been by the second afforded a further opportunity to consider the matter, and then repeated his refusal. As to the circumstance to which he had also referred, and upon which he seemed to rely, that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had, in giving his judgment, expressed a strong opinion on the case, he (Mr. O'Beirne) could not attach any importance to such a statement, as the point for his Lordship's decision manifestly was whether he had jurisdiction or not, and the judgment merely ruled that no such jurisdiction existed. The right hon. Gentleman also relied upon the fact that granting a writ of error was a Prerogative of the Crown, and that he was bound by his oath to advise Her Majesty according to law. Now, this seemed to be rather a singular statement. No doubt what the right hon. Gentleman meant to say was that he was bound to advise Her Majesty according to the law as he believed it to be. An oath of any other nature would be rather an unusual one. But there was nothing to satisfy the public or the House that because the right hon. Gentleman took this oath he was not open to mistakes. Certainly, it was now of the utmost moment that the House should express an opinion upon this question. If the law was to be
 665
 MR. HENNIKER-MAJOR , who had given Notice that he would call attention to the danger arising to life and property form the careless use of Lucifer Matches, said, at this late period of the Session, when he could not hope to arrive at any satisfactory or practical result on the subject of the Notice standing in his name on the Paper, he did not think that he would be justified, although the opportunities of doing so were not very numerous, in proceeding with it, particularly when he took into consideration the large amount of important Business still remaining to be got over: he should, therefore, withdraw his Notice. Perhaps, however, the House would allow him to make a very few remarks, to show his reasons for bringing the matter forward. A large number of fires, causing very great damage to property, in his own and adjoining counties, had occurred lately from the careless use of lucifer matches. This was considered to be so serious that last year, at the Assizes in Suffolk, the Grand Jury, of which he was foreman, made a Presentment on the subject; it was a rare thing in that county for a Presentment to be made, but so many cases of arson came before them, proved to have arisen chiefly from children playing with, and having easy access to, lucifer matches, that they thought it right to do so. The number of fires arising from the same cause increased through the winter, and the case became a still more serious one. To show the amount of damage done by the careless use of lucifer matches, he would mention that the Norwich Union Fire Insurance Office, which insures one-seventh of the whole agricultural property and farming stock in the country, paid in three years for insurances for damage done by 133 fires no less than £13,462, calculating on that basis, the amount paid throughout the country by Insurance Offices for insured property of this class would be £94,234, for damage done by 931 fires caused entirely by the indiscriminate sale and use of these articles; and when it was considered what the amount would probably be on uninsured property not taken into calculation, this was a very serious matter indeed. In the Report of the Evidence before a Select Committee of the House last year on Fire Protection, in answer to a question put as to the amount of the payments made for insurances by
 655
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose with great pleasure to support the noble Viscount's request. None could have brought the subject forward with greater ability or effect than the noble Viscount, the eldest son of one of our most distinguished officers. His noble Friend had rather under-stated than over-stated the number of casualties in the New Zealand War, and the ability and zeal of the gallant men engaged in it. Those men had gone through greater fatigues, with less excitement to carry them forward, than soldiers engaged in campaigns of greater magnitude. It was often so of little wars. A friend of his who had been engaged in the Kaffir and Crimean Wars had declared the hardships of the former far more severe than those of the latter. He trusted, therefore, the Secretary for War would recommend Her Majesty to bestow some mark of distinction upon the men engaged in New Zealand, in acknowledgment of their faithful services to their Queen and country.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, he hoped that next Session the learned Lord Advocate would bring in a Bill which would meet the educational requirements of Scotland. Though, on the whole, the people of Scotland might be better educated than those of England, yet one-tenth part of the population in the rural districts were very imperfectly educated, the parochial schools being quite inadequate to meet the wants of these parishes. The average pay of the schoolmasters in the Highlands did not exceed 10s. a week.
 MR. LOWE  said, there was a great deal of justice in the criticisms of his two right hon. Friends near him; but the real question before the House was not whether this Bill applied a remedy in the best possible way, but whether the remedy was one which ought to be applied at all. The simple question was, whether it was advisable to have a second meat market placed on the shore, so that the animals when landed could be slaughtered on the spot. He did not doubt the finance of his right hon. Friend the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone); but, at the same time, he felt sure that, if the establishment of such a market were thought desirable, there would be found sufficient ingenuity in the House to supply the requisite money. It was a great pity that the whole scheme of the Government was not before the House; but there was no reason in not doing one thing because they could not do another. His right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) had imported into this discussion a degree of heat and vehemence which, considering the extreme sweetness of his nature, was hardly to be accounted for, except on the supposition that he had been in the company of that class of persons who were once not thought fit to servo on juries on account of the ferocity which their trade was supposed to engender. His right hon.
 629 cordon 630 631
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN) : I think it would have been more fair and becoming on the part of the hon. and learned Ba-
 659 660 "Writs of error to reverse judgments in case of misdemeanours are not to be allowed of course but on sufficient probable cause shown to the Attorney General, and then they are understood to be grantable of common right, and  a debito justitiae 661 ex gratiâ "It is part of the Prerogative of the Crown that a writ of error should not issue except with the concurrence of the Crown, testified by the fiat of the Attorney General." 662
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN) : The hon. Member was under a misapprehension—the points of error alluded to were in the second memorial. He (the Attorney General) had alluded to the first memorial.
 MR. COGAN  said, he thought the discussion and the numbers which had just been announced would show plainly to the country that this Select Committee, which; sat for nine weeks on this Bill, came to the proper conclusion when they reported in; its favour. He did not believe the effect of the measure would be to enhance the price of meat to the consumer in the metropolis. The importation of foreign cattle must be placed on a sounder and less capricious footing than at present, or the
 640
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he rose to call attention to the granting of Writs of Error in criminal cases, and to move a Resolution on the subject. It had lately been asserted by a Law Officer of the down in Ireland that writs of error were not a matter of right but a matter of grace. In the case of Mr. Pigott, the proprietor of the  Irishman bonâ fide 656 "A writ of error for the reversal of judgment in treason or felony is the right of the subject, and ought to be granted at his desire, and is not an act of grace or favour which may be denied or granted at pleasure." "That a writ of error is not a writ of grace, but of right, and ought not to be denied to the subject when duly applied for—though at the request of either House of Parliament—the denial thereof being an obstruction of justice, and contrary to Magna Charta." "Whether writs of error ought to be granted, and what ought to be done upon writs of error afterwards, are very different things. The only matter under your Majesty's consideration is, whether in right and justice the Petitioners are not entitled to have writs of error granted. "We are sure that the House of Commons in 1689 was of opinion that a writ of error, even in cases of felony and treason, is the right of the subject, and ought to be granted at his desire, and is not an act of grace and favour which may be denied or granted at pleasure. So that, as far as the opinion of the House of Commons ought to have weight in such a question, whatever the present opinion of the House is, they then thought a writ of error was the right of the subject in capital cases, where only it had been at any time doubted of. "But that it is a writ of right in all other cases has been affirmed in the law books, is verified by the constant practice, and is the opinion of all your present Judges except Mr. Baron Price and Mr. Baron Smith." 657 Ex parte Ex parte fiat 658
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. POWELL  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether the Reports for 1868 of (1.) Committee of Council on Education; (2.) Science and Art Department; (3.) Medical Officer of Privy Council, are to be published during this Session; and, if so, when; and, whether he can assign any reason why the publication of these Reports have been thus delayed until after the Votes to which they have reference?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that it was impossible to deny "that with reference to non-combatant officers, especially with respect to the medical officers, there was a great inconsistency in their pay. Some years ago the pay of the medical officers in the Army was reconsidered, and the pay of the Infantry medical officers was raised to the level of the Cavalry officers' pay, thereby leaving the Cavalry officers at some disadvantage with respect to forage deductions. It was, however, constantly found that medical officers in the Army were desirous of obtaining commissions in Cavalry regiments.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, there would be four vacancies in the Council of India this year, and there would be great difficulty in inducing gentlemen to accept the office, unless they knew the nature of the tenure by which they would hold their offices, and the amount of their salaries. The Government of India Amendment Bill only contained six clauses. The 1st had passed through Committee. To the 3rd, 5th, and 6th there was no objection. The 4th related to the appointment of the Governor General's Council in India, which might give rise to some discussion, and he proposed to withdraw it from the Bill and transfer it to the Governor General of India Bill. The last clause referred to the salaries of future Members of the Council. The Bill stood for Committee that day, and if he was allowed to pass it through Committee at the unopposed hour hon. Members might move any new clauses on the Report, and the field of discussion would thus be much narrowed.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he sees any objection to the appointment of a High Sheriff for each of the Ridings of the county of York—namely, one for the East, one for the West, and one for the North Riding, and, if he does see any difficulty or objections, if he will state the same to the House?
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Bath, Whether the Metropolitan Board of Works, having power under "The Finsbury Park Act, 1857," to purchase 250 acres of land, have purchased only 130 acres; and, whether the said Board propose to sell for building purposes twenty acres of the reduced quantity—being nearly the whole of the frontages—whereby the benefit and use intended for the public will be further and most seriously prejudiced?
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he strongly objected to the new procedure with regard to Election Petitions sketched out in this Bill. The remedy proposed with respect to corrupt practices was simply as to the mode of proceeding. It entirely destroyed the existing system, which retained the jurisdiction in Committees of the House, subject to the general supervision of the House itself, and gave it to a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas. The remedy
 723 724 Nisi Prius, 725 "I have lost a great many cases I ought to have won, and won a great many I ought to have lost; and therefore, upon the whole, I think that justice has been fairly administered." 726 Memorials "I fear that no impartial censor can avoid detecting, throughout the whole course of the trials, not mere casual indications of bias, but absolute straining for convictions. … If ever there was an occasion when a Judge might have shone simply by being just, this was one. But the Bench was the place upon which political passions, not aggravated by the prosecution, and distressing to many of the jurymen, settled and operated. … If, instead of a supreme Court of Justice sitting for the trial of guilt or of innocence, it had been an ancient Commission appointed by the Crown to procure convictions, little of its judicial manner would have required to be changed." 727 Nisi Prius. cheval de bataille 728
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he could not help thinking the greater part of his right hon. Friend's speech would have come more appropriately on the Motion for the second reading. The main objections to the proposal of his right hon. Friend were—first, that he made no provision whatever for a local inquiry, and, next, that he made no provision for an inquiry when the House was not sitting. Now, those two provisions appeared to him to be the main points of the Bill,
 729 730
 MR. LOPES  said, he objected to the Bill as introduced by the Government, because it was an abdication of the jurisdiction which the House had exercised so long and so efficiently, and also because it was proposed to intrust that jurisdiction to a tribunal which, he believed, would be very inefficient. The right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) argued that the House had abdicated its jurisdiction 100 years ago; but did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say, because the House had thought fit to intrust that power to a component part of its own body, controlled by the House, elected by the House, and making its Report to the House, that was
 731 732
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he would not detain the Committee, but having taken the initiative in the Select Committee in endeavouring to prevent the total transfer of the jurisdiction of the House over these matters, he wished to state the course which he was prepared to take. He had certainly desired that the House should preserve its jurisdiction, and hand over its privileges unimpaired to the Parliament which was about to be elected by the enlarged constituencies; but both the Select Committee and the Committee of the House, having decided that the jurisdiction should be transferred, he was not prepared to imperil and delay the Bill by voting for any one of the numerous Amendments which were intended practically to reverse the decision at which the Committee had arrived. He thought there was something more important to the character of the House than the preservation of its jurisdiction—namely, that it should show the country that it was really in earnest in desiring to repress that bribery and corruption against which the Bill was aimed. In that view he should support the present clause, and should do all in his power to strengthen the hands of Government in passing as stringent a Bill as possible against those corrupt practices which were a scandal to the country.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he adhered to the objections which he originally entertained against this measure, objections which had been exceedingly strengthened by what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Plymouth (Sir Robert Collier). The hon. and learned Gentleman had argued that there must be one tribunal to decide those questions finally, and that it would never do to have any of the schemes by which the local inquiries were to be instituted subject to revision. The hon. and learned Gentleman had next said, "Why should
 733 734
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he thought it was desirable that the discussion should not be complicated by a reference to all the various plans which had been suggested; and he should therefore address himself to the Amendment of his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) as compared with the provisions of the Bill. His right hon. Friend contended that Committees of the House, as at present constituted, gave their decisions in Election cases with great impartiality, and he was not prepared to deny that such was the fact as far as the decision with respect to the seat and the existence of corrupt practices was concerned. Did a Committee of that House, however, he should like to know, ever find a Member guilty of bribery? ["Yes."] Not once in fifty years. But if it were proved that a candidate had deposited a large sum at his bankers, that he made no inquiry as to how it was expended, and that his recognized agents had laid out portions of it in bribing, would not any tribunal, except one composed of Members of the same class as himself, and who were liable to the same temptations, find him guilty of some kind of corruption? What he desired to see was a tribunal which would consider bribery which was tolerated by a candidate as if it had been committed by him, and that would not be done, he believed, so long as the decision rested with the House itself. The Amendment of his right hon. Friend would be an improvement on the existing state of things, but it failed in the essential condition of providing a local inquiry, and one that could be pursued when Parliament was not sitting. By means of a local inquiry the commission of offences could be much more easily detected than if the investigation were conducted at a distance. If local inquiry was of no advantage, what was the use of the Judges going circuit? The cases were precisely analogous. Although he thought that
 735
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would not repeat the usual formula that he had no wish to prolong the debate; but he rose with a sincere desire to expedite, as much as possible, the proceedings in connection with the Bill. On a former night he had voted against the Motion for transferring the jurisdiction. As between the two pro positions before the Committee, though he was prepared to vote for the Amendment of his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), he had no desire to see a division take place. The question was not what was best in the abstract, but what was best under the circumstances, and the wisest scheme under all the circumstances of the case was, in his opinion, that which stood on the Paper in the name of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). That plan provided for a local inquiry by means of attorneys of the House of Commons to be appointed by the Speaker, while it proposed but a very small innovation on the existing system. It also had the advantage of being easily revocable. There would be no great inconvenience
 736 737
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he hoped that the Government would be inclined favourably to consider the overture made to them by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). The real pith of the matter would consist in the limited time now proposed by the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill). But rather than not have any improvement, he would consent to adopt the plan of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie).
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill relating to Election Petitions from Ireland? If not, there would be two separate systems in operation with regard to the trial of Election Petitions; but he would seriously object to the application to Ireland of such a scheme as that under consideration. He was opposed to the principle of transferring the jurisdiction in Election matters from that House to any other tribunal.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the real question before the Committee was the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie); and, if that were carried, the Government would consider that the Bill had received a very considerable blow, which would be fatal, in his mind, to the whole Government proposition. It appeared to him that the best course to pursue would be to come to a decision on that Amendment. The suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone) to limit the period during which the Bill should be in force, was one which deserved the consideration of the House; but it would be far more convenient if that question should be discussed on the Amendment of which the hon. Member for Westminster had given Notice. It would receive from the Government a candid consideration, but he was not prepared, upon the moment, to accept a proposal which really required much consideration. It would be a matter, open to
 738
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he preferred the Amendment of the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) to the clause in the Bill; but if he had an assurance from the Government that they would adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), he would then willingly vote for the clause.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he felt disappointed at the statement of the First Lord of the Treasury; and he thought it incumbent on him distinctly to declare that he should vote against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) with the intention of afterwards supporting the suggestion of the hon. Member for Westminster.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he wished to have a distinct answer to the question whether or not the Bill was to apply to Ireland? The Bill, as altered from the shape in which it was introduced, was an exceedingly bad one, and he should give it his decided opposition.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to have some explanation. The clause proposed that the Petition must be presented within twenty-one days after the return, unless it specifically alleged payment of the money subsequent to that period; and the Petition might then be presented within twenty-eight days after the date of such payment. The important question, therefore, would arise, whether a Member's seat should be questioned at any time during the continuance of the Parliament to which he was elected. But that was not the only question that would arise. Any number of Petitions might be presented—one after the other had been disposed of. First, there might be the general Petition, to be presented within twenty-one days; and when that was disposed of, another Petition might be presented, making some distinct charge of corruption within twenty-eight days of
 739
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. and learned Member had alluded to the provision in this clause, as though it was of a novel character; but, in fact, that proposition was an exact copy, in a statutory form, of the ordinary Sessional Order, passed at the commencement of each Session. It was introduced for the purpose of meeting the case where the sitting Member, in order to avoid being unseated, had deferred the corrupt payment until after the time for presenting an ordinary Petition had expired. It was most desirable that there should be nothing in the Rill to preclude the inquiry which could at present be made under the jurisdiction of the House, where those guilty of corrupt practices had deferred their payments.
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he must beg to point out that, while the usual Sessional Order permitted Petitions to be presented from the date of the General Election to fourteen days after the next meeting of Parliament, the present clause limited the time for presenting them to twenty-one days after the return of the Writ, so that however gross the corruption and bribery might have been, if the means of exposing it were not discovered within twenty-one days of the date of the return, it would be impossible to present a Petition, unless some subsequent corrupt payment was alleged. That confirmed him in the belief that the effect of the Bill would not be to promote the discovery of bribery and corruption, but quite the reverse; that considerable additional discouragement would be thrown in the way of its discovery and exposure. No doubt the chances of compromise would be lessened, but the question was whether such an advantage would be a compensation.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that in cases where the right to a seat was involved the clause directed that the Peti-
 740
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was at a loss to know what were the views of the Solicitor General with reference to the Bill. If they repealed the 5 & 6  Vict
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Select Committee had come to the conclusion that it was advisable to repeal the Act to which the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had referred, because it had proved in operation to be futile with reference to inquiry into general corrupt practices; and it was therefore inserted in the Schedule. He proposed, in order to meet the objection which
 741 "If, upon a Petition to the House of Commons presented within 21 days after the return to the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery of a Member to serve in Parliament for any borough or county, or within 14 days alter the meeting of Parliament, and signed by any two or more electors of such borough or county, and alleging that corrupt practices have extensively prevailed at the then last election for such borough or county, and that there is reason to believe that corrupt practices have there so prevailed, an Address be presented by both Houses of Parliament praying that such allegations may be inquired into the Crown may appoint Commissioners to inquire into the same, and if such Commissioners in such case be appointed they shall inquire in the same manner, and with the same powers, and subject to all the provisions of the statute 15th and 16th of Victoria' cap. 57."
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he could confirm the statement of the Solicitor General as to the Act referred to by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets being inoperative. The Committee thought it hardly worth while to retain it on the statute book. Whether it were repealed or not was immaterial as regarded the inquiry under this Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he must still contend for the accuracy of the view which he had expressed. He maintained that if they repealed the Act they would shut the door against all general inquiry into corrupt practices. He thought it should be struck out of the Schedule, otherwise more harm than good would be the result of the Bill.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he would beg to remind the Committee that they were discussing matters which did not properly come under consideration at this time. If they desired to progress in this matter, it would be much better to confine themselves to the question immediately under consideration, which was whether twenty-one days were a sufficient time for the presentation of a Petition after a General Election, and twenty-eight days for a Petition complaining of undue influence and corruption. It was necessary to shorten the time if they expected two Judges to get through the work.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he believed that the time allowed was quite sufficient, inasmuch as the existence of bribery was pretty well known at the time at which it was committed. "With reference to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr.
 742
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought a longer time than twenty-one days was necessary; because facts leaked out from the vexation and disputes which usually followed an election, and ample time should be given for them to come to a head. He was of this opinion, although he admitted that in some instances more than twenty-one days was practically given.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his experience had led him to believe that neither twenty-one nor twenty-eight days produced knowledge of bribery; whether bribery existed or not was always very well known while the election was in progress. Agents were on the watch, and kept their eyes on the forty thieves to be found in every borough [Mr. BOUVERIE: Not in every borough.], and the agents soon knew whether any of the forty thieves had been bribed. What remained unknown was the time and place when the bribery was committed, and that was only divulged in the committee-room, and very often not there.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  stated that as his three Amendments on this clause had been virtually disposed of, he did not propose to move them.
 MR. POWELL  said, he thought that Notice of a Petition having been presented, should be required to be given to the constituency. He therefore moved, in line 16, after "prescribed," to insert—
 "And by sending a copy thereof, within the prescribed time, to the Returning Officer of the Borough or County to which the Petition relates, who shall forthwith publish the same."
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  objected to the Amendment on the ground that it was inexpedient to multiply conditions precedent to a prosecution. The more they multiplied such conditions, the more opportunities they afforded for evading the jurisdiction of the Judges. There could, however, be no objection to a separate clause embodying the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he considered that it was essential that the constituency should be informed that a Petition was presented, because otherwise the thing might be kept perfectly quiet and the constituency might know nothing about it.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he approved of the Amendment, but thought it should be proposed as a new clause.
 MR. POWELL  said, he thought the amount of security mentioned in the clause might be too small in many cases. He desired to give power to increase the security required of the petitioner above £l,000, and, therefore, he moved in line 27, after the word "of," to insert the words "not less than."
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought the suggestion a good one, but doubted whether it could be carried out by the Amendment.
 MR. POWELL  said, that his proposal involved another Amendment in the next clause.
 MR. NEATE  thought £1,000 sufficient security.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he felt there was danger of preventing Petitions if too high a security were required.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he hoped the Government would insert "£2,000." He spoke feelingly on that subject. He had no idea of men of straw being allowed to harass Members by attacking their seats without the slightest excuse for doing so. That system was practised in order to carry on that great abuse the pairing off of one Petition against another.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, that in the case of men of straw it would be all the same whether they were made answerable for £1,000 or £2,000.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, that if the object of the Bill was to prevent bribery and corruption, they ought not to impose these penalties—for they were nothing else but penalties—upon petitioners who might be poor electors, who had themselves suffered from such corrupt practices. It ought not to go forth to the world that unless such persons could produce £1,000, or could get somebody else to be answerable for that amount—supposing they should fail in establishing bribery—they would be precluded from coming forward to expose or punish if. There
 744
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the present practice in that matter worked very well, and he thought the use of the word "precisely" in the Amendment would not add much to its efficacy, while it might raise numerous questions in regard to every one of the notices served.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he had no objection to omit from his Amendment the words "precisely describing the ground of it," but he thought that notice of objection ought to be given.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed, that all the practice was to be prescribed by rule of Court, and he thought they might trust to the Court to see that proper notice was given.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  said, that while hon. Members were anxious to give facilities for presenting Petitions in every possible way, they ought not to forget that there were such things as poor candidates. He would mention the in-
 745
 MR. DENMAN  said, he was also of opinion that too great facilities should not be given to men of straw, low attorneys, and villains of all kinds, who might desire to get up Petitions against men who might have been returned by a good majority. For his own part he looked upon bribery as a most heinous offence, and would not allow a single farthing to be expended on his behalf that might not appear in the auditor's books; but then he knew from his experience how vexatiously Petitions were sometimes presented against particular returns. The House should bear in mind that there was such a thing as an honest candidate, and should not seek to favour only petitioners and sureties, who very often were men of straw. In his own case, a Petition had been presented against him by two persons, one of whom became bankrupt, and the other went to the Continent in order to avoid being mulcted in costs. An offer was made to withdraw the Petition if he would not insist upon costs; but to that he refused to assent. Ultimately the Petition was not prosecuted. The costs in that case amounted to between £200 and £300, which was no light sum f for a man of moderate means to lose through being called upon to defend his seat before a Committee. How much greater the expense might be if a man were called upon to defend his seat at a distance from London he was not prepared to say. He thought that the proposed Amendment too much lost sight of the case of the honest candidate.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  thought the object of the hon Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) a very excellent one, but it was met by the clause as it stood.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, that though there was great force in what had been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman), yet it must be remembered that there was also a great hardship on the other side; and it appeared to him that the hon. Member for Westminster was right in proposing to facilitate as much as possible the presentation of Petitions.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he was fully aware of the evil to which his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman) referred. He believed that there were nearly as many dishonest Petitions as there were corrupt elections. But the remedy for this evil must be taught independently, and not by rendering  bonâ fide
 MR. POWELL  proposed to insert the following words after "mentioned," in, line 12—
 "Or if proof be not given in manner prescribed that the notice of the presentation of the petition and of the nature of the proposed security has been duly sewed as hereinbefore provided."
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he thought facilities ought not to be given by which men of straw might, from improper motives, present Petitions against the return of Members. The effect of this clause would be where the security required was insufficient that a London Club would be got to advance the £1,000. Now, as the money would be spent in that locality, and the Judge would bring a train with him, it would be the direct interest of those living on the spot to get up such an inquiry. He moved the omission of the words relating to the deposit of the money.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , did not see that any injustice would be done by allowing the petitioner, instead of giving security, to deposit a sum, of money.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he hoped the House would not encourage frivolous Petitions. He intended to move a Resolution requiring that a certain number of persons should unite in every Petition.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must point out to hon. Members who talked so much about men of straw, that the clause was framed to provide against such persons coming forward with Petitions, by requiring them to deposit a considerable amount of money by way of security. By the law, as it at present stood,
 747
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he thought that the proposal of the Bill was in point of fact equivalent to a revival of the old custom of straw bail. With a view to prevent unjust and frivolous Petitions being fomented, he should support the Amendment.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he must oppose the Amendment. The object was that the party petitioned against should have good security, and no security could be so good as the actual deposit of the money.
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that the time had now come when the Committee would expect to hear from the Prime Minister whether he agreed with the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) that the Bill should be in operation for a limited period only. He (Sir Roundell Palmer) had always doubted the wisdom and policy of the Bill. Those who, like himself, regarded the Bill with disfavour would prefer its being looked upon in the light of an experiment; but, on the other hand, there was no disguising the fact that if at the end of the time determined on it were not thought advisable to continue the measure, the two Judges who were to be appointed under the Bill would be left without any functions to perform, and must, of course, be ultimately merged in the general body of the Judges. Whether or not an increase in the number of our Judges was necessary was a very important question, but one which it was scarcely their province at that moment to determine. A Royal Commission had been recently appointed to inquire into the subject, and it would not be right to anticipate their decision by something incidentally arising in this Bill. He hoped the Commission would recommend something acceptable to the country. He had a great objection to special jurisdictions, and he thought that if new Judges were to be appointed they should form part of the present body. If two Judges were to be appointed specially for this jurisdiction, he doubted whether two men could be found who would in every respect command the confidence of the public; and if, by any chance, the Judges elected should not prove
 748 749
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he thought they ought to be Judges who had held the office of Judge for five years.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it was always contemplated that they should be Judges of this standing.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it would be better to add two Judges to the number of the present Judicial Bench, or to the Court of Common Pleas, if that were thought preferable, leaving for after selection the two Judges for the particular duty under this Bill; so that if the system should not be found to work well, those Judges would merge into the Court as vacancies occurred, and we should return to our present starting point. This plan would involve no disturbance of the ordinary organization. The new Judges would sit at chambers, go circuit, and take the usual part in the Exchequer Chamber. They would act as Assessors to the House of Lords, or assist in the Court of Probate and Divorce, the Court of Chancery, & c. When an Election Petition was presented to the Court of Common Pleas, there would be the advantage of seven Judges to choose from instead of two. Then comes a larger question. He wished the Committee to ask themselves how the Judges were going to try these Petitions? According to past experience the number of Petitions after a General Election would be about forty. Many hon. Members who were favourable to the Reform Bill of last year believed there would be a great many more Petitions in the next Parliament; and the present measure appeared to have originated in the fear and belief that corruption would be increased, and that the next, House of Commons could not safely be intrusted to discharge the duties which the present House performed. Supposing that there were as many Election Petitions at the next election as in times past, how were these two Judges to try forty cases? How long must they sit to enable them to do so? It would be necessary to have
 750
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, he concurred in the opinion that the two Judges to be appointed should be added to the judicial Bench and exercise a general jurisdiction, it being undesirable that they should have special and exclusive functions. He would suggest a proviso that they should take office subject to the future determination of the Mouse as to what their duties should be. This would not interfere with any of the very valuable provisions of the Bill.
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that as the transfer of jurisdiction had been determined upon, all that remained was to carry it out in the best manner. He did not think it would be desirable to give the two additional Judges to the Court of Common Pleas; because if such a course were adopted the Judges of that Court might appear to be selected exclusively for that office. In his opinion it would be better that an additional Judge should be appointed both in the Queen's Bench and Common Pleas, and if it should be thought necessary in the Court of Exchequer also, so as to assist the present judicial Bench in their ordinary duties, and the Puisne Judges should take these Election Petitions in turn.
 MR. DENMAN  pointed out that if no two of the fifteen Judges could be found to undertake this jurisdiction—a contingency not unlikely to be realized—the whole thing would come to a dead-lock,
 751
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, that if the Committee were compelled to listen to long speeches on subjects already decided on, very little hope of making Progress could be entertained. He rose simply to disclaim the notion suggested by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) as that which prompted supporters of the Bill. As a Member of the Select Committee which considered the Bill of last Session, he assured the Committee that the recommendations made were founded, not on fears for the future, but on experience of the past. The Select Committee was satisfied a change was needed, but that no change would be effectual unless the jurisdiction were removed from the House. He was bound to say he preferred the scheme of his hon. and learned Friend to the scheme of the Bill, which he would support merely as superior to the present system. He thought there were great objections to the Minister of the day choosing the Judges who were to fill the office. He was in favour of adding to the Judges, and leaving the work with them as a body, on the understanding that the Judge for the occasion would be selected by a  rota. 752
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, that if he could not get a better measure he should support the Bill, because he believed that; human ingenuity could not devise anything worse than the system under which Election Petitions were at present tried. He thought, however, that the whole of this jurisdiction ought not to be given to the Court of Common Pleas, but that an additional Judge should be appointed to each of the Common Law Courts. These Judges ought to go circuit, and do all ordinary business. The Judges on whom the trial of Election Petitions should devolve should be appointed by  rota
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would remind the Committee that the Judges objected to the work being thrown on them as a body, because it would entail odium on them and depreciate their authority in matters of greater importance. Everyone was interested in the purity of the Bench and the authority it exercised. It was a strong argument against change of jurisdiction if no one could be found competent to take it. He believed, however, that if special Judges were appointed to the Election Petitions jurisdiction, perfectly qualified persona could be found to fulfil the functions.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the first objection taken by the hon. and learned Member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer) was that the Judges whom it was proposed to appoint would be improperly named, and besides this he made a verbal criticism by way of ob-
 753 Nisi Prius 754 755
 MR. LOWE  said, that the speech of the Solicitor General might be divided into two parts—argument and menace. And first as to the argument. He did not think that his hon. and learned Friend could gravely contend, if they were to sit down to devise the best system for trying Election Petitions by Judges, that this Bill would be found to contain it. Her Majesty's Government hardly thought so, and he was very unwilling to press on them, because he thought that in this matter they had shown a great and sincere wish to carry out the Report of the Committee. He wished, therefore, to speak with all moderation of their conduct on this question. Many reasons might have led them to take the course which they had adopted; and he did not mean to say that this scheme, lame and imperfect as it was, would not be better than losing the Bill altogether. But when the scheme was argued on its merits—when it was put as a matter not of threat but of reason—he must demur to what his hon. and learned Friend had said. For what could possibly be worse than to pick out two persons on whom the eyes of all persons likely to have business coming before the Courts would be fixed, and who were inevitably to decide on these matters? Let those persons be ever so moderate—let them be the perfection of carefulness, prudence, and impartiality—they would not escape all manner of censure and cavil. Then there was another question, which was, that when they created a tribunal for a particular purpose there ought to be some reasonable proportion between the powers of the tribunal and the duties it would have to perform. Now, how could it be supposed that two Judges could try a tenth part of the Petitions after a General Election? It was clearly ridiculous to suppose that the means provided had any sort of relation to the end to be attained. Well, that had been foreseen, and it was provided against; because the two Judges who were to be specially marked out from the rest of their brethren as political persons, whenever they found that they had
 756 757
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, on the 6th of July the right hon. Gentleman and many Members of the Committee have arrived at a conclusion which was originally adopted by the Select Committee, and which the Government approved in the
 758
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he did not think that the speech of the Solicitor General contained anything like menace. He had
 759
 MR. DISRAELI : It was originally intended to report Progress about this period of the evening, and the decision which the Committee has arrived at is an additional reason for doing so and affording the Government an opportunity to consider whether they can meet the exigencies of the case. I cannot conceal from myself, although I do not say it by way of menace, that I have great difficulties to contend with.
 MR BOUVERIE  said, there was a clause upon the Paper drawn up by himself which expressly made the provision that three Judges should be appointed. If the Committee adopted that clause, it would give effect to all that was implied in the decision just come to. It would be a great convenience to all those who were most sincerely anxious to support the Government in passing this Bill if a day were fixed for resuming the consideration of it.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, it would be a great convenience to those who wished to support the Government if the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown, would let them know on what day he would go on with the Bill.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that in his opinion the case presented no difficulty for the Government at all, as the Committee had by its decision reverted to the original Government plan of employing all the Judges. The opinion of the House had been at first unfavourable to this idea, but it now appeared that they were willing to adopt it.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would be kind enough to name the earliest day on which
 760
 MR. DISRAELI : I must give the same answer both to the hon. Gentleman, opposite and to the hon. Gentleman near me. The Committee has not yet agreed to report Progress, and therefore it is quite premature to make the inquiry.
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought the situation a very simple one. The Government paid to the protest made by the Judges the respect to which it was entitled, and they had altered their Bill. The House of Commons also, out of respect to the Judges, offered no objection to the Government bringing forward a new scheme. Its difficulties, however, were apparently so great, as were the disadvantages of any plan except that which the Government first recommended, that the House had wisely determined to revert to the original plan of the Government and to increase the strength of the judicial Bench by the addition of three Judges. He had far too much respect for the Judges of the country to believe that they would persist in the objection they had made.
 LORD STANLEY  replied that requisitions had been addressed to the Porte at various dates on the subject. The latest of those representations bore the date of the 11th of June last, and to that there had not been yet time to receive an answer.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he did not think that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War had met the charges of the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield (Major Anson), or that he was entitled to shelter himself behind the excuse that, not expecting from the form of the hon. and gallant Gentleman's Notice that the subject of the accounts would be brought forward, he had not prepared himself to enter into the question. His hon. and gallant Friend had referred to the great waste of money which was taking place in the War Department, and that was also a point eminently worthy of consideration. In addition to the cases specified by his hon. and gallant Friend he (Mr. Otway) had some charges to bring against the Department over which the right hon. Gentleman presided. The first was that when an invention had been approved and the inventor had been rewarded by that House, the Committee to which, reference had been made
 778
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet opposite that it was impossible for him to meet the charges of the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield (Major Anson) without ample notice having been given of them. Instead of wording the Notice as his hon. and gallant Friend had done, he could not help thinking, if his hon. and gallant Friend had intended to bring such grave charges forward, he ought to have used such language as—"In order to prevent erroneous Estimates, in order to prevent utterly falsified accounts being presented, such and such things ought to be done." He thought, however, that when charges of so grave a character were made it was not sufficient that the right hon. Baronet opposite should come down to that House and content himself with making a counter-statement. The hon. and gallant Member, after making such serious charges against the Department, ought not to be satisfied without moving for a Select Committee, or obtaining a promise from the Secretary of War that the whole matter should be fully inquired into by an independent body. He quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet as to the difficulty which stood in the way of dealing with the proposal made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. He went even further, and contended that the proposal to work those establishments as private firms was utterly impracticable. He had had some little experience in connection, with those establishments, and believed that they had conferred great advantage on the country. It was no doubt expe-
 779
 COLONEL ANNESLET  said, that some of the charges brought forward were of a most extraordinary character. The hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway), for instance, had made it a matter of compliant against the Government that they had supplied each of the guns sent to Abyssinia with 1,000 rounds, while not more than two rounds to each gun had actually been expended. (Mr. OTWAY: Had probably been expended.] The fact, however, was that there had been scarcely any fighting in Abyssinia, and if the reverse had been the case, and the Government had neglected the precaution of providing an ample supply of ammunition, the hon. Member for Chatham would have been only too ready to have charged the Government with their neglect. He ventured to think that the hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter) was incorrect in the opinion which he had expressed, because his belief was that the officers of the army were far from wishing to deprive the soldiers of the ammunition which at present was placed in their care. If that were done, what would be the result when the soldiers were called upon to engage in active service at a moment's notice, a tiling to which they were always liable? During the prevalence of the Fenian alarms, for instance, a detachment of troops was telegraphed for at twelve o'clock, and left town for Osborne in con-
 780
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Law of Registration in Ireland, explained that by this measure it was proposed to shorten considerably the period for revision of the electoral lists. The effect of it would be that the Courts for revising the lists would be held between the 8th of September and the 6th of October, so that, the register would be in the hands of the sheriff by the 1st of November. The general result would be that the whole of the proceedings would be concluded on or before the 1st of November, instead of the 30th, as at present, and therefore the time for the conclusion of all the proceedings would be nearly the same as under the English Bill. He wished it to be understood that this measure would not at all interfere with the old franchises; but would apply solely to those which would be created under the I Irish Reform Bill. Supplemental lists of the persons entitled to the new franchise would be placed before the Revising Barristers at the time of the revision Sessions; but the ordinary register for the old franchise would not be interfered with. There would also be a provision for increasing the number of polling-places, and another for facilitating the representation of Masters of Arts in the University of Dublin.
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MAJOR ANSON  desired to say a word in personal explanation of the charge which had been brought against him. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War had complained that he had brought this matter forward without having given sufficient notice of his intention. He certainly was under the impression that the right hon. Baronet knew that he was going to make these charges, and he could only further say that he had not made a single charge which had not been previously brought officially before the Secretary of State.
 MAJOR ANSON , in rising to move a Resolution on the subject of our Expenditure on Warlike Stores, said, he felt bound to call the attention of the House to this subject in consequence of the enormous amount which our expenditure for Warlike Stores had now reached. Since the close of the Crimean War we had expended on this single item no less than £19,000,000, while £4,000,000 had been voted over and above the amount actually expended. From the confused manner in which the accounts were made up, it was impossible to arrive at any but very indefinite ideas respecting any particular item. In this respect our system of accounts presented a roost disadvantageous contrast with that of the French, which stated the expenditure under each head with the greatest accuracy. He had, however, compared our expenditure with that of the French in regard to Warlike Stores during the ten years following the close of the Crimean War, and in instituting this comparison he had classified the Warlike Stores under three heads—1. General stores. 2. Small arms. 3. Gunpowder. He found that during the ten years ending March, 1867, we had spent on general stores £9,875,431, as against £4,920,862 expended by the French in the same period. On small arms we had expended £3,891,779, while the French had only expended £1,679,822. And in respect of the item of gunpowder alone we had in the period referred to spent £1,671,207, as against £535,362 spent by the French. The total expenditure incurred by us during those ten years was, in round numbers, £15,438,000; and by the French £7,136,000; showing a difference against us of £8,302,000. While on this subject he wished to point out to the House that of the loan of £17,000,000 sterling contracted this year by the French the sum of £4,784,000 was taken for the purchase of warlike  matériel 762 matériel. matériel, matériel 763 "This is exclusive of the army accoutrements, barrack, hospital, and other stores, a great portion of which is supplied from this country, and the value of which cannot be stated." 764 765 "Instructed to give their early and best attention to the question of providing some cheaper mode of construction for heavy guns, looking to the probable introduction of a large number of such guns for coast defences, and to the importance of reducing the expense which would attend their supply as made at present." 766 "The Committee do not at present recommend experiments to test the efficiency of Major Palliser's method, on the ground that it appears to be loss economical than the gun constructed wholly of wrought iron." "This does not include an estimate of the cost of the 12½-ton gun made of cast-iron with a wrought-iron barrel. The Superintendent, Royal Gun Factories, states that when called upon by the Ordnance Select Committee for such an estimate, he explained to them his inability to furnish it, and that the estimate he did lay before that body (and which appears in their Report) was one of a compound gun, constructed on a general principle, in accordance with Major Palliser's views, as expressed in a (published) Letter to Captain Heyman, Secretary to the Ordnance Select Committee, on the 18th of May, 1864, and illustrated by a drawing; but, finding that this was not the description of gun they desired, he withdrew it." "In this Report the estimates sent in by the Superintendent of the Royal Gun Factories have been taken into consideration, as well as that of the Palliser gun, handed in by the Superintendent, and withdrawn by him, as before stated. The Ordnance Select Committee, in their Report, have treated the latter as if it were an estimate for a cast-iron gun with a wrought-iron barrel; and now state that, as far as their records show, it stands as given in their Report, and they were not aware the estimate had been withdrawn. They see no reason, however, to doubt the fact." 767 768 769 770
 LORD ELCHO  said, his hon. and gallant Relative (Major Anson) being unable again to address the House, wished him to express his desire for a searching investigation into the statements he had made, and his intention to move on Thursday next for a Select Committee. He would prefer, however, that the inquiry should be proposed or instituted by the Government.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What steps Her Majesty's Government are taking in support of the claims of English shareholders in Turkish Railways for the arrears of interest due under the guarantee of the Turkish Government?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  stated, in reply, that he did not propose to cut down any more trees of the slightest importance in order to make a drive to the south of the Albert Memorial in Hyde Park this year. As to what was intended to be done generally with respect to the laying out of the Park in that neighbourhood, he could only repeat the answer he had already given to the right hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper). It was proposed to
 717
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that it was not the intention of the Government to take any steps during the remainder of the Session to carry out the recommendations of the Commission appointed to inquire in 1866 into the subject of the accommodation of Public Departments. It was, however, intended to give at the proper time the usual notices for the acquisition of property in order that there might be legislation in the ensuing Session.
 MAJOR DICKSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that a Schooner had been struck in Dover Roads by a 68-pounder shot?
 MR. HAYTER  said, that before the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War replied, it would be convenient that he should call the attention of the House to what was comparatively a small matter, but nevertheless one of great importance—namely, the advantage of returning to the old practice in respect to the serving out of ball ammunition. The practice up to the year 1827 was to keep the twenty rounds of ball ammunition now carried by all non-commissioned officers and privates of the army in store, to be served out to the men only when going on guard, or when held in readiness for immediate duty. That practice still obtained in the cavalry. It was absurd to suppose that it would be considered a slur upon the army to withdraw this ammunition from the possession of the men. He heard a general complaint expressed of the delicate character of the Snider ammunition, inasmuch as it was apt to bleak through the paper, and becoming loose was rendered unfit for use. "When such an accident occurred the whole expense of re-covering it fell upon the captains of companies, which was viewed by them as unjust. If the practice he suggested were adopted also, they would get rid of the double process which was now required on every field day, when the ball cartridge had to be delivered into store, previous to the issue of the blank. Should it be necessary to hold the troops in readiness, a previous order would be given by the
 772
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied that agreements had been entered into with the telegraph and railway companies who were opposing the Bill, subject to the approval of the Select Committee. These agreements would be scrutinized by the Committee, and should they recommend the Bill the House would then, of course, have an opportunity of expressing its opinion upon them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the volumes of original Orders of the Lord Lieutenant and Council, 1592–1615, and of Kings' Letters obtained from the Philadelphia Public Library, were now in the hands of the bookbinders for the purpose of being handsomely bound. They would, he hoped, be ready to be sent to the Public Record Office in Dublin in a very short time. Copies would be taken for the use of students in this country There were other Papers of great importance relating to Ireland being calendared, and these would take precedence of the Papers to which the right hon. Gentleman's Question referred in that respect.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that the object of this measure was to release the Treasury from an undertaking entered into by them in 1856, to establish a short sea service between the West of Scotland and the North of Ireland, the railway companies being at the same time bound under penalties to construct lines to the ports of Portpatrick and Donaghadee. Those lines had been completed, and nearly £50,000 had been spent on Portpatrick harbour; but it had already begun to silt up, and was found to be unfit for a night, and consequently for a punctual mail service, while the postal accommodation could be provided far more cheaply and equally well by accelerating the mails  viâ
 COLONEL LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has seen the Report in the papers of the Sanitary Commissioners of the  Lancet 719
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked whether there was any limit to the number of persons resident in one house who might be enfranchised under the provisions of the Reform Act of last year relating to lodgers? He was informed that in some places attempts were made unnaturally to crowd houses with a number of families which the houses were quite unable to contain properly, and this was supposed to be done with the view of giving the franchise to the residents in those houses.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend Mr. DILLWYN, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is true that negotiations, contingent upon the passing of the Telegraphs Bill either in this or the next Session of Parliament, for the purchase of their interest in Telegraph Companies by the Government have been entered into by the Post Office authorities with certain Railway and other Companies, notwithstanding that a Select Committee of this House is now conducting an inquiry into the whole question of the expediency of the Government's taking up the Telegraphs; and, if so, whether he will lay a Copy of the suggested form of Agreement upon the Table of the House?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he conceived that the question to be decided would not be how many persons were in a house, but whether the persons in it were or were not  bonâ fide
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he believed the arrangement to be a judicious one, and the best escape from an impolitic undertaking. When he was at the Treasury, the obstacle to the settlement of the question was a claim set up by the companies, not merely to a short sea service, but to a second express mail communication between London and the North of Ireland by that route. The latter would have been enormously expensive, and he resisted the claim, which had turned out to be unfounded. He thought his right hon. Friend had now very fairly met the legitimate claims of the companies.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that he did not wish to retard the progress of the Bill; but he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department a Question touching a decision given by the Court of Common Pleas on Saturday last. It would be in the remembrance of the House, that the
 721
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he trusted that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War would not follow the advice of the hon. and gallant Member. Every officer he had spoken with expressed, surprise that an officer could be found to make such a suggestion, which, in plain. English, meant that our soldiers were such a body of assassins that they ought not to be trusted with ammunition. It was a gross insult to the army. If they could not be trusted with ammunition, they were not fit to be soldiers at all.
 MR. PARRY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it be the intention of the Government to take any steps, during the present Session of Parliament, to carry out the recommendations in the Report of the Commismissioners appointed in November 1866, to inquire into the question of the accommodation of Public Departments?
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he proposes to cut down any more trees near the monument to the late Prince Consort; if so, how many; and generally what are his intentions as to laying out Hyde Park in that neighbourhood?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, When the volumes of original Orders of the Lord Lieutenant and Council, 1592–1615, and of Kings' Letters, obtained from the Philadelphia Public Library, will be sent to Dublin; and, whether these Papers are to be calendared in the series of Calendars of Irish State Papers, under the direction of the Master of the Rolls?
 MR. TITE  said, in reply, that at the time when the Act was passed the Metropolitan Board were in rather happier circumstances than now appeared to be the case, inasmuch as Government had undertaken to defray half the cost of the Park. A very charming site was pointed out at Hornsey Wood House, where there was a beautiful lake with a very fine view. In consequence of the opposition of the House of Commons to the first Vote of £50,000 for the Park, the Board of Works had an extremely difficult task east upon them in the creation of a Park of such extent, as well as the keeping it up, as the whole expense fell upon the ratepayers. The subject was discussed at great length by the Board, and the result was that they determined to "cut their coat according to their cloth," and to purchase 130 instead of 250 acres. That they had done, and the ground was now being enclosed. The total expense incurred up to the present was £94,000, and the cost would exceed over £100,000 before the scheme was completed; in addition to which the Park would have to be kept up. Under these circumstances the Board had deemed it right to utilize portions of the land which lay at the lower part of the Park, and that might, he thought, be done without damage to the large area remaining, and the burdens on the ratepayers thus diminished.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he regretted that the Select Committee on this Bill, of which he was a Member, had not taken evidence as to the possibility of it being carried into execution without great inconvenience. He had suggested that some Revising Banisters, election agents, and other persons officially connected with the matter, should be examined; but this was negatived, and they had to proceed with very imperfect in-
 722
 SIR. GEORGE BOWYER  said, he regarded these establishments as resembling to some extent the gardens in which the proprietors cultivated their own vegetables at a cost greater than the price which would have been demanded for them in the market. The Government had not the same motives to economy which were to be found in private establishments. They laboured under no fear of bankruptcy, and consequently did not pay that attention to details which private persons find so necessary to the success of their undertakings. He thought, therefore, that it would be much better for the Government to go into the open market and purchase what they required as cheaply as they could, instead of carrying on those expensive establishments. But if the Government were resolved to maintain the manufacturing establishments, the strictest accounts ought to be kept in order to compare the cost of munitions of war supplied by private manufacturers with those manufactured by the Government. The only sound principle on which public manufactories could be conducted, was that laid down by Sir Henry Parnell in his Work on  Financial Reform,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , who rose with other hon. Members, said, he had given way to the hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter), as he thought that he was going to address the House on the larger question introduced by the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield (Major Anson). He was ready to admit the great importance of the proposals embraced in the Motion of that hon. and gallant Member who was entitled to thanks for the attention he had given to a subject, which not only involved the interests of the country as regarded
 773 774 775 "That in order to prevent the manufacture of Warlike Stores becoming a mere monopoly in the hands of the Government Establishments it is advisable to purchase a certain proportion of the articles required for Military purposes from the private trade." per contra 776 "To ensure accuracy of accounts, economy of production, and fair comparison of Government with trade prices, the Manufacturing Departments shall be treated as private firms, the Government purchasing the articles required at remunerative prices, to be provided from Army and other Votes, and the capital charges of the Establishments—whether for buildings, plant, or working capital—being provided by advances at interest made by the Public Works Loan Commissioners." 777
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would cause inquiries to be made on the subject. He would also take the present opportunity of informing the House, with regard to what was reported to have occurred at Portsmouth a few days ago that a strict investigation was now going on under the superintendence of a General Officer.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he had seen the Report in question, which made very favourable mention of the Windsor Cavalry Barracks in some, although it complained of their condition in other respects. The chief points of complaint were the failure of certain modern inventions for the promotion of cleanliness, the absence of sufficient accommodation for the families of married men, and the want of water. As to the first point, he could only say that the inventions to which reference was made were not, he believed, always found to be successful. There were complaints on the subject last winter, and a medical officer, in conjunction with an officer of Engineers, had been sent to visit the different barracks to ascertain the real state of the case. The Report of those gentlemen had not, however, yet been received, and he could not, therefore, give a decided answer with respect to those mentioned. The complaint in reference to the accommodation provided for married soldiers he must say he looked upon as somewhat unreasonable. It was well to bear in mind the position occupied by married soldiers ten or twelve years ago, when they and their wives were obliged to occupy the same rooms with single men. During the last twelve years £240,000 had been expended in providing quarters for them; and the expenditure for the purpose of providing the married soldiers and their wives with separate rooms was going on at the rate of £30,000 or £40,000 per annum. It was now, however, made matter of complaint that a married soldier with a family of five or six children was not provided with two rooms; but he thought that single rooms ought to be provided before such complaints could fairly be indulged in. As to the want of water, he had merely to to state that the Windsor Barracks had a water company to supply them, and that he could not understand why they should suffer any inconvenience in that respect.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he regretted that he was absent on Friday evening when the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Viscount Enfield) drew attention to the propriety of granting a medal to the men who were engaged in the New Zealand War. He wished to take this opportunity of stating that it was their intention to grant a medal to the soldiers and sailors engaged in that war.
 GENERAL PERCY HERBERT  said, that when the Government purchased Warlike Stores the quality was almost invariably found inferior. If the Government did not manufacture a large portion of their gunpowder, they would run the risk of getting powder of inferior quality, which would derange all calculations of range and accuracy of firing.
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether Lieutenant General Sir Henry Storks,
 811
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, he would now beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay upon the Table the Papers referred to in War Office Letter of the 6th April 1868, page 19 of Papers marked War Office, "Control Department," 373, as the "enclosed Draft Regulations;" together with any Memorandum thereupon by the Chief Controller?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed that it was contrary to practice to repeal Acts of Parliament without specifying them, and he therefore proposed the following Amendment to be inserted after the word "Commissioners":—
 "But no statute or scheme proposing the repeal of any Act of Parliament, or the alteration of the provisions or application thereof, shall have effect until the same has been submitted to Parliament in a Bill, to be introduced by Her Majesty's Ministers within two months after the commencement of the then next Session of Parliament, and such Bill shall have been enacted." 813
 MR. WALPOLE  observed that the clause as drawn was almost entirely analogous to the Oxford and Cambridge Act. He did not think the hon. Gentleman was aware of what would be the legal effect of his Amendment. He (Mr. Walpole) thought the introduction of those words would cause great confusion, and instead of enabling the Commissioners or the Governing Body to settle what are to be the future arrangements, they would have to come back to Parliament, re-opening the whole of the questions now discussed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, his object was to take care that a set of Commissioners or the new Governing Body should not have power to vary Acts of Parliament.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he hoped the clause gave no such power.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he could not admit that the clause would give any power to repeal Acts of Parliament. This Amendment would render it necessary to bring every scheme before Parliament to be discussed, and that would be obviously most inconvenient.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought the Amendment proposed would do away with all the advantage of passing the Bill. Where would be the benefit of the measure unless the new Governing Body had power to reform or make better regulations for the conduct of the schools?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that his object was that the property in question should be dealt with by Act of Parliament.
 MR. GOLDNEY  supported the clause as it stood.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the object of his hon. Friend (Mr. Newdegate) was to prevent a course being followed which was unprecedented; and his hon. Friend contended that these schools should be enabled to come to Parliament in the same way as the schemes of the Charity Commissioners were submitted to Parliament.
 MR. NEATE  said, there was a precedent, and in proof of it he would refer to the Acts relating to Oxford University.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  denied that there was any precedent, and in the case referred to by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Neate) the Act of Parliament was never mentioned.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the Commissioners would be enabled to deal with the rights of property in utter ignorance by this House.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he could not understand the tendency to hand despotic powers to Commissioners.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, if this were agreed to, he should move the insertion of other words preventing the Ecclesiastical Commissioners from appropriating more than £4,000 to Westminster School.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped it would not be lost sight of by the friends of the Church and the supporters of religion that property originally set apart for the religious culture of the poorest was being appropriated for the education of the wealthiest. ["No, no!"] That he maintained was the fact. Reverting to the clause under consideration he advised the granting of an annuity to the School, rather than giving it property which could be much more cheaply managed by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He moved the insertion, of the words "or for granting an annuity of the like amount."
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he hoped the Committee would not agree to the Motion, on the ground that it would maintain the connection between the Chapter, the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and the School, whereas the object of the Bill was to sever the connection, and place the School upon, an entirely independent footing.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he could not allow the statement of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets to go un-
 815
 MR. NEATE  said, he had certainly understood from many "Old Westminsters" that the School used to be specially the resort of the British aristocracy.
 MR. W. LOWTHER  said, the aristocracy used to be strongly represented at Westminster, but they did not, as alleged, devour the endowments, which were freely enjoyed by sons of the poorer clergy and struggling professional men. The endowments of Westminster were not being created now for the first time, and in any fresh distribution of the funds he thought the School had a right to claim its fair proportion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Government might very fairly have supported the recommendation of the Committee; but they had shown a ready lavishness to spoliate the people by adding a further sum of £500 a year to the endowment. His hon. Friends who had been educated at Westminster School seemed to believe that they had been there in company with all the poverty of the town; but that was not the impression of anybody else. What he complained of was, that those who had the charge of this Bill had refused to introduce a clause which would limit the application of these public funds to people who shall give evidence that they were required for the purposes of their education. He had a right to say therefore that this was a Bill for the benefit of a class who could afford to pay for their education. Supposing that Westminster School was used by those who could not pay for their own education, he would ask whether the same thing could be said of Eton, Harrow, and Rugby? Were those schools carried on upon the principle of being most adapted to the people who could not afford to pay for their education? On the contrary, their only peculiarity was that they were most expensive in point of charge, and least effective in point of education. ["No, no !"] It was notorious that the education of the majority of the scholars was neg-
 816
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman, who was so severe upon the Government, had not been very careful as to the accuracy of his own stetement. So far from the Government seeking to spoliate the funds belonging to the Church, the proposal in Committee to fill up the blank with the sum of £3,500 was carried by a majority of 14 or 15 votes, the only dissentient being the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets. The Committee had determined that a sum should be paid to the School out of the property of the Dean and Chapter, amounting to nearly £3,593, and all that was now asked to be done, in addition, was, that the Commissioners should be left a discretion to increase that amount to a sum not exceeding £4,000. The Government, in sanctioning that proposal, were simply acting on the equitable construction to be put on the statutes, which laid it down that portions of the funds in question fairly belonged to Westminster School.
 MR. W. LOWTHER  expressed a hope that the Committee would accede to the very reasonable suggestion which had just been made. The requirements of the present day necessitated that additional accommodation should be provided for the School.
 MR. MARSH  said, that, according to the proviso at the end of the clause, in the event of Westminster School being removed beyond the City of Westminster, all its property and income derived from the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, or from the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, or their estates, would revert to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He thought that Westminster School should be treated on the same principle as the Charterhouse School; and therefore, by way of Amendment, he moved in line 28, after "governing body," leave out to the end of the clause.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he was of opinion that there was force in the argument that Westminster School, not being an entirely independent school, but being connected with Westminster Abbey, should not be allowed to take the funds which arose from the revenues of Westminster Abbey and spend them in some place in the country. He therefore deemed it desirable that the decision of the Select Committee, which was in favour of the proviso, should be adhered to, though the matter was of no great practical importance, as it was not probable that Westminster School would be removed into the country.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he thought that the buildings round Dean's Yard ought to be reserved, and ought to lapse to the Abbey, if the School should be removed.
 MR. LOWE , in proposing a new clause, providing for an annual examination by Inspectors, said, that the proposal was not altogether a new one, because when the Public Schools Commission were inquiring into the matter they invited the public schools to submit to an examination of the kind he proposed; but for various reasons, all equally cogent, these schools declined the honour that was offered them. He made this proposal in no spirit of hostility
 818 819 "That all boys educated at the seven Schools mentioned in this Act shall be examined once a year, by one of the Inspectors of the Committee of Council on Education, in reading, writing from dictation, arithmetic, including vulgar fractions, practice, and the rule of three, geography, English grammar and history, and the results of such examination and the Report of the examining Inspectors shall be laid before Parliament.—( Mr. Lowe
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  contended that the effect of the adoption of the clause would be to degrade the great public schools of England down to the level of village schools. The right hon. Gentleman had in another place ascribed his success in life to his command of his mother tongue; but he would venture to say that there was no Member of that House who owed more to other sources. Had he trusted to his mother tongue alone, independently of the classical reputation which he had acquired, he would scarcely have reached so high a position as he had achieved. The right hon. Gentleman scorned to wish to interfere with private right, and the function of the Head master of the school. There was no such thing as  mens sana in corpore sano,
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would be obliged to vote against the clause, be-
 820
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he hoped the clause would be pressed to a division, because it was evident that most pupils at public schools did not know as much as an intelligent charity boy. Complaint had been made that the whole time of public school boys was taken up by the study of Latin and Greek; but, as a matter of fact, they learnt very little of these languages. An ordinarily educated German could converse with a foreigner in Latin if the two had no other language in common; but how many Englishmen carried from a public school sufficient Latin to do this? He confessed that, although he might be able to translate some half dozen words of Latin, he was wholly unable to translate a sentence from the Greek, although he had studied those languages for ten years at a public school. He complained that it was the fault of the system and his misfortune that this was so. The fact was, public schools had become mere hotbeds of social exclusiveness and aristocratic prejudice, where people sent their sons to pick up what they called gentlemanly connections. He hoped that a division would be resorted to, in which case the right hon. Gentleman would find more Members voting for him than he expected.
 MR. WALPOLE  agreed that it was desirable to remedy as far as possible the deficiency of their public schools with regard to the lower branches of education; but he did not think that the remedy which the right hon, Gentleman proposed to apply would at all hit the source of the disease. The sources of the deficiency were chiefly two—one was connected with the boys, as the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) had virtually admitted was his own case, the other was traceable to the parents. The real fault lay with the parents themselves, who left the responsi-
 821
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, there was no doubt the fault lay to some extent with the parents; but a parent who paid £200 a year for the education of his boy had, at the same time, a right to expect that he would be taught the elementary branches of learning. For his own part, he hoped the Motion would be pressed to a division. The Government had done a great deal during the last twenty years for the education of the poorer classes, and it was time now that something should be done for the children of the upper and middle classes. Government inspection, he believed, would do a great deal towards renewing public confidence in the education given in the public schools.
 MR. HENLEY  said, of all the curious propositions put forward during the present discussion, this was the most remarkable. For the last couple of years the Legislature had occupied itself in constituting anew the Governing Bodies of the great schools; it had not hesitated to deal freely with founders' wills, with Acts of Parliament, or, as some put it, had not scrupled to "rob the poor." But hardly was all this done, the work even was not yet completed, when the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) came forward and said—
 " These very authorities whom you have just
 822
 MR. ACLAND  said, the great evil of the public schools was the tacit recognition of idleness. One of the Assistant masters at Eton brought before him very plainly the difficulty of grappling with this evil, when he repeated a saying of the parent of one of these boys—"I don't care whether my boy learns anything as long as he makes a good connection." The gentleman who made this remark was a man likely to rise into a very high position in society, but he was nevertheless somewhat of an upstart. The ceremony of examination under the operation of the clause would
 823
 COLONEL SYKES  maintained that the principle advocated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne was a sound one. The object of the clause was to see that the endowed schools did their duty in elementary knowledge. The fault was not in the pupils or the parents, but in the system. According to the rules at Harrow a pupil might go out with honours in Greek and Latin without knowing the multiplication table.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the remedy which was now proposed was that the scholars should be examined, not in what the schools professed to teach, but in what every boy should know before he went. To examine them in what any boy should know at a National School might be an extremely good joke against the schools; but he hoped no one would vote for it seriously. The examination should be in those subjects the cultivation of which was the purpose of the schools. But he quite agreed that the examination provided by the clause might be applied as an entrance examination.
 MR. HEYGATE  thought the objections which had been urged against the teaching
 824
 MR. NEATE , having a great respect for endowments, protested against the way in which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) proposed to treat them, and expressed himself as not well satisfied with the feeble defence of them which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole).
 MR. LOWE , in reply to the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), who argued that the Motion might be good as far as it went, but that it should go further, observed that it could go no further, as there was no machinery by which the boys could be examined to better effect than according to the plan he proposed. With regard to the Universities, there were enormous endowments held out to those who learnt there; but with regard to elementary studies nothing was to be got in the way of endowments, and no endowments were held out as rewards for good teaching. Therefore, it was important to bring before the public the amount of deficiency in teaching which might exist in any institution. The hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. D. Griffith) said that his (Mr. Lowe's) tongue was not enough. Now he (Mr. Lowe) quite agreed with him—mother wit was wanted as well as mother tongue. As to the statement that there was no such thing as  mens sana in corpore sano, 825 pro confesso
 MR. P. WYKEHAM-MARTIN , in supporting the clause, observed that when he was at Eton there were there a certain number of day scholars, the sons of tradesmen, who were received upon an equality with the rest of the scholars.
 MR. BARNETT  also supported the clause and remarked that he recollected when the head boy of Eton was the son of an Eton tradesman.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the boys were all treated alike at the public schools.
 MR. WALPOLE  objected to the clause, on the ground that it would interfere with the management of the school by permitting the influx of a number of boys far larger than the teaching power of the school was calculated to educate in a proper manner. He added that under a clause of the Bill the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman might be accomplished.
 MR. NEATE  urged the necessity for some such provision, as the interest of the
 827
 MR. AYRTON  urged that there was no ground for the objection made by the right hon. Gentleman to the clause. He was willing to consent to the introduction of words to guard against any undue increase in the number of the scholars.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  remarked that in the 12th clause power was given to the Governing Bodies to afford facilities for boys other than boarders to attend the schools.
 MR. AYRTON  said that power was not given to the Commissioners to do what he required, and therefore the clause was necessary.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought his hon. and learned Friend would do well to leave the education of the day boys to the Commission.
 MR. COWPER  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has received any Chemical Report on the trials that have been made for the induration of the Walls of the Houses of Parliament, and whether he will lay such Report upon the Table of the House; and, when the public will be admitted to see the Frescoes painted by the late Mr. Dyce in the Queen's Robing Room?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that as far as the Frescoes were concerned, they were now quite fit to be inspected by the public, and he believed he might also say, with great confidence, that they would prove themselves to be fully worthy of the fame of that distinguished and lamented artist. With regard to the room itself, there were some slight works being carried on under Mr. Barry's charge, which were not yet completed. Mr. Barry had been called away from London, and he was not able to say precisely how soon the room, would be in a condition to be opened to the public, but he apprehended very shortly indeed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in answer to the first Question of the right hon. Gentleman he had to say that the money referred to had been paid into the Consolidated Fund since the Act passed authorizing such payment, which was in 1843. There was an Act passed in the first year of the present reign to provide for the audit of accounts in Ireland, and a fee of not exceeding 5 s.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not able to answer the question of the hon. Member (Mr. Wyld) about the prosecution, as he had not received Notice that it would be put; but if the hon. Member would repeat it he would be happy to let him know how the matter stood at another time. With respect to the Circular Delivery Agency, be understood that some of those agencies professed to deliver circulars; but it was found that a great many of the circulars which it was alleged were delivered were thrown into rivers and ponds and out-of-the-way place, and that some of them were put into pillar-boxes without being paid for, in order that they might be delivered by the Post Office. He was not sure, therefore, that those agencies really carried out what they professed to do. He had been several times in communication with the Post Office to see whether printed matter weighing less than four ounces could not be carried cheaper than 1 d.
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise to Order, Sir; I am listening to every word the hon. Member is saying. I have reason to believe that other Gentlemen on this Bench are listening also; and I am therefore quite at a loss to put any interpretation that is intelligible upon the observations of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. M'LAREN  called attention to the expediency of carrying printed matters cheaply by the Post Office. The Post Office, having a monopoly, was able to drive private carriers out of the market. But when the private carriers were allowed to deliver circulars, they could carry with profit to themselves for a farthing what the Post Office charged a penny for carrying. Agencies were established in Liverpool, London, Edinburgh, and other towns for the delivery of circulars; but the Post Office took legal means of establishing its monopoly, and put down the private trade. The Post Office now proposed that they should be allowed to do all the telegraph business of the country, on the ground that they could do the work much more cheaply than the telegraphic companies. If that was true, why could not the Post Office carry circulars for double the charge that would be asked by private carriers? He thought the Post Office ought to carry any printed matter not exceeding one ounce for a halfpenny. If that price were charged a very large number of circulars would be sent through the Post Office. There was a special reason why circulars should be carried by the Post Office cheaply at this time. Millions of circulars were sent out at election tune, and it had been calculated that if a candidate for a large town, such as Liverpool, Glasgow, or Manchester, were to send four circulars to each elector by the penny post it would cost him
 833
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had received several communications from merchants and others on the subject brought under the notice of the Committee by the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), and he had accompanied that hon. Gentleman as one of a deputation on the subject to the Postmaster General. By a Resolution passed in 1860, all contracts extending over a period of years for the conveyance of mails by sea were required to be laid on the table of the House for a month, and the sanction of the House was necessary
 841
 MR. HORSMAN  admitted that the hon. Gentleman had given an explanation with respect to Penang with great fairness, but there was no precedent either at home or
 845
 MR. SYNAN  said, he did not think the explanation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer satisfactory. The Master in Chancery who audited the accounts referred to only received the same salary as the other Masters of the same Court.
 COLONEL FRENCH , on rising to put a Question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting the amount levied off the Irish counties by compulsory presentment under the head of Audit, referred to the circumstances under which Mr. Anthony Blake was appointed to the office of Chief Remembrancer under the Act of Parliament passed in 1833. In his opinion compulsory presentments had been levied off the Irish counties in a very unconstitutional manner. For works on the Shannon, which had not effected the objects for which they had been undertaken, as much as £300,000 had been so levied. He hoped his right hon. Friend would state how much had been levied for audit expenses. He would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, For how many years the sum of £500 a year, part of the amount levied off the Irish counties by compulsory presentment under the head of Audit, has been placed to the credit of the Consolidated Fund; and, whether it is intended to appropriate the accumulated sum towards developing the resources of Ireland?
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that hon. Gentlemen seemed to forget that the Post Office contributed to the revenue of the country. In his opinion no person had reason to complain of 1 d.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the matter could be more conveniently entered into if the noble Lord would give Notice of a Question upon it.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he would endeavour, as far as he could, to answer the observations made by hon. Members, though the Committee would, he trusted, extend some indulgence to him, as much of
 842 843 844 viâ
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the contract had been laid on the table, and would, be hoped, be in the hands of Members to-morrow. The question of a fortnightly mail to Australia was still under the consideration of the Postmaster General. No doubt there was inconvenience, in consequence of only four days being allowed to answer letters to Australia, but it was very difficult to arrange the mails so as to suit all places; but, in the course of another year, perhaps some more convenient arrangement might be devised. The expense of a fortnightly mail to Australia would be very great, and it was by no means clear that all the Australian colonies were of one mind on the subject.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  stated that there were two Italian mails from this country to Paris, but only one from Paris to Italy. The Post Office, however, had no power to remedy that inconvenience.
 MR. CHILDERS  observed that the difficulty was to meet the requirements at both ends, consistently with the arrangements for India and China. If another week were allowed for answering letters in this country, the result would be that the letters would arrive at Sydney two days after the homeward mail had left. On the existing basis, he believed that the present time-table was the beat that could be devised. He hoped hon. Members would
 846
 MR. O'BEIRNE  asked if the Cape mail contract is to be entered into before hon. Members had an opportunity of seeing what that contract is?
 MR. WYLD  suggested that the experiment of having the packets call at Falmouth should be tried, as that of having them call at Plymouth had not been considered successful.
 MR. WYLD  called the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to a prosecution which was being carried on against the Circular Delivery Company. That Company charged only one farthing for a circular for which the Post Office charged 1 d.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he had been informed that the Government had not only not invited tenders for an intermediate monthly mail to the Cape of Good Hope, but had disregarded an uninvited tender, though it was lower than the contract made with the Peninsular and Oriental Company. In substance, that contract had been entered into last year; but it was not yet laid on the table of the House. If he had not been correctly informed, the fault was with the Department in not having furnished before now a correspondence which had been ordered for the use of Members. If contracts were laid on the table only a few days before the termination of the Session, the rule of producing them, that they might be approved or objected to within a month, was not kept in spirit.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that as it appeared that some of the greatest curiosities that would give the Museum greater novelty were "going to the bad" for want of more space, he wondered why the worthy Alderman did not propose a large sum for a proper building.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, that the object of the Post Office was to bring the different
 834
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that with reference to the matter so ably advocated by his hon. Friend, he could not help suggesting to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it would be very proper to carry  bonâ fide
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, that a few years ago property might have been purchased adjacent to the Museum on very' reasonable terms. He believed that it would be an economical thing even now if on estimate were made for the purchase of the property in Montague Street, and if negociations were forthwith entered into to buy the property. Such a step would, of course, invoke the question of the separation of articles of vertu from the collection of natural history. Ought it not to be the duty of some one to ascertain what articles were now stowed away and perhaps going to ruin for want of proper accomodation in the Museum? He believed the time had arrived when there ought to be a proper depositary for the invaluable treasures of every description collected in the British Museum.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  expressed an opinion that much improvement might be made in the postal service by the adoption of a system of country sorting offices, to which letters might be sent direct, instead of, as in many cases, being first sent to London, whereby much time was lost. Some years ago he drew the attention of the Post Office to this subject. He found that if a letter intended to be sent to Chatham were put in the Post Office at Woolwich at seven o'clock, it was sent up to London, and passed by Woolwich again at twelve o'clock the next day, and was not delivered at Chatham till about two o'clock in the day. He admitted that the great commercial communities were well served; but he thought greater advantages might be conferred on the rural districts.
 MR. CRAWFORD  called attention to the recent increase of postage on letters addressed to the East Indies and Ceylon, and the exemptions allowed in certain privileged cases. The subject was considered two years ago by a Select Committee of the House, and recommendations were made which resulted in increased facilities being afforded and in many additional services being established. A recent arrangement with the Peninsular and Oriental Company had given the public the advantage of communicating once a week with Bombay, instead of forty-eight times a year as formerly; but this increase from forty-eight to fifty-two posts in the year, or about 8½ per cent, had been followed by an increase in the rate of postage from 10 d. s. d. d. d. 836 viâ s. d., s. d., d. s. d., s. d. s. d.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that he had observed that the First Lord of the Treasury had been paying attention; but he did not think he would interest himself in these mere departmental details. He would now proceed with his remarks. The Post Office authorities had given notice that, concurrently with the establishment of the weekly mail service to India, the rates would be raised to 1 s. d. d. viâ d. viâ 837 d. d.,
 MR. CRAWFORD  complained that while the postage of newspapers to Australia was only 1 d, d.
 MR. LOWE : The grant to the British Museum last year was £95,446, and the sum for which I am to ask this year is £99,380, showing an increase of £3,934. That increase is accounted for mainly by
 829 830
 MR. T. BARING  said, he wished to bring under the notice of the House and of the Government a complaint made by the inhabitants of Penang. For a period
 838 839
 Mr. T. BARING  urged the claims of Penang to improved postal communication.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, the principle had been frequently laid down in that House that mail packet contracts ought to be thrown open to public competition. But he had heard it stated that that rule had not been followed in the case of the contract for the West India mail service, and he should be glad to receive some explanation upon that subject.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  complained that the postal communication with the Continent of Europe was very defective, and that no progress had been made in the delivery of letters. They were told in the  Post Office Directory 835 Postal Guide.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  commended the economical administration of this Department, and said it was an example which he thought might be advantageously imitated in the Admiralty and other Departments; but he ought to have remembered the Customs existed for the collection of money and the other offices seemingly only for the purpose of spending it.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  remarked upon the insufficient redress given with respect to lost letters, and gave an instance which recently came under his own notice. He
 832
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  observed that in the matter of postal contracts the public should be considered as well as merchants and owners of steam-packets, The Government were bound to view such questions in an economical light—not forgetting the taxpayers—and to see that the total sum received for postage, if it did not equal, should at least bear a considerable proportion to the amount paid for the contract. In many cases the subsidies were too large, and he thought better bargains might be made.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  congratulated the Trustees on the success of their efforts in obtaining works of art; but could not congratulate the Museum upon its success in a popular point of view. Notwithstanding the sums that had been spent on it, the people did not go to it as they were expected to do, and the number of visitors fell off every year. Even the readers frequenting the Reading Room showed a diminution of more than 30,000 in the last six years. There was far too much of some things, and too little of other things. People got tired of seeing so many cats, dogs, monkeys and birds—in fact it wanted weeding. Many of the gems and articles of value the right hon. Gentleman admitted were put away in cellars. Even celebrated antiquities did not please everyone. A person he knew said of one room that it was "full of big stones, and men without heads, and he did not see much merit in them." He told his friend he was not perhaps a judge of Fine Art; but being himself in the room devoted to antiquities the other day not a single person was to be seen. The public wanted greater variety, and the tastes of all should be considered and not that of only one part of the community. At present he could not-regard the British Museum as a success, or as a proof of good management.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  called attention to the inconvenience which arose in respect to answering letters arriving from Australia by the present arrangement for the arrival and departure of the mail steamers, the letters from Australia reaching this country after the mails had left. He had moved for a copy of the memorials from bankers and others presented to the Postmaster General on this subject on the 31st of March last; but the answer given was that the matter was still under consideration. What was wanted was a fortnightly mail to Australia.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  was perfectly aware that there was communication with Malta, but he complained that the communication was excedingly dilatory and uncertain; and a considerable improvement would he effected on the present system if the Government would run a steamer between Malta and Sicily.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  pointed out that under the old arrangement the steamers of the Peninsular and Oriental Company touched at Malta; but under the new arrangements they had ceased to do so. At present our communications with that important dependency were made under most unsatisfactory circumstances—Italian steamers being employed to convey the mails to Sicily and thence to Malta. The communication between Sicily and Malta was only once a week, and the consequence was that there was unnecessary delay in the transmission of letters between Malta and this country. This was a great injustice to a dependency which had vastly increased in importance since the cession of the Ionian Islands. Malta was a great port and also a strong fortress, besides which it had the capabilities for becoming a dock for the whole of the Mediterranean. And yet, while knowing full well how important a place it was, the Government
 840
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied that his hon. and gallant Friend was quite mistaken in the inference which he seemed to have drawn, that the Regulations now upon the table of the House had been drawn by the Treasury. The first Draft of the Regulations was somewhat hastily compiled, and was rather more lengthy than was necessary. It was, therefore, improved and revised; but the revised Copy, which was now on the table, had been drawn up by the same hand which drew up the original Regulations, and he could not see what good object was to be attained by laying on the table the first Draft, which had been improved upon and considerably altered.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  in reply, said he trusted that his hon. and gallant Friend would not think him wanting in courtesy to him if he declined to state in that House the substance of any conversations which might have passed between himself and the War Office officials with whom he had the pleasure of acting. There was, however one statement which be wished to make, as it might possibly be inferred from the Question that his hon. and gallant Friend intended to imply that there had been some personal difference between Sir Henry Storks and himself. [Colonel JERVIS: Not the slightest!] He did not mean to say that such was the intention of his hon. and gallant Friend, but he thought that might possibly be inferred from the terms of the Question, and he wished, therefore, to state most specifically that nothing could be more friendly and harmonious than his communications with Sir Henry Storks.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  agreed in thinking that the present managemement of the Museum was not satisfactory; but the fault was not with the Trustees. One great drawback to the library was the
 831
 VISCOUNT MILTON  called attention to the absence of any direct communication between this country and British Columbia.
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT , who had given Notice of his intention to move a series of new clauses, proposed the omission of all the words after "sixty-eight" down to the end of that clause, in order to insert the words "the occupier of every mine in England and Wales producing coal, clay, stone, salt, or ore, shall be rated in respect thereof for the relief of the poor.''
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  suggested, that as the proposals of the hon. Member were more in the nature of an alternative Bill than of Amendments, it would be most convenient to take the discussion upon them at once as a whole; and then, if the hon. Gentleman succeeded in carrying the first of them on a division, that decision might be accepted as a decision upon them all.
 MR. BRUCE  said, he wished seriously to call the attention of the Government to the great importance of that measure. Its object, which was generally approved, was the rating of certain property which had hitherto been exempt from rating. But now it also proposed to make serious alterations in the manner of rating coal mines, which were already subject to rates; and he thought a question of that great importance ought not to be embodied in the Bill without due notice to the whole country. It affected not simply the coal owners, who might as a body be
 849
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he for one had come to the conclusion that the only way of dealing fairly with the question of rating was to do away with all exemptions. His hon. Friend would, he might add, in his opinion, do well not to press his Bill this Session. The subject was one on which he could not take it upon himself to legislate now; indeed, it belonged to another Department of the Government; but he confessed he should like to see the whole question of exemptions dealt with in one Bill.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he believed that the House was pretty well agreed that mines should be rated; and the only remaining question was, on what principle the rating should be assessed. His own opinion was that all mines should be rated upon the same principle as coal mines; and he thought a simple enactment might be passed declaring that the words "coal mines" in the statute of Elizabeth should be held to include all mines. As to the course which the Government were prepared to take in the matter he could give no definite promise. All he could say was that his Department would give it due consideration during the Recess; and he should be very glad if he were enabled to introduce a measure dealing with it next Session.
 MR. HENDERSON  said, that there were no two parishes in England in which mines were rated on the same principle.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he could not help thinking that the House had all the information on the subject that was necessary to enable it to legislate upon it with advantage. The Bill did not interfere in the least with the principle on which coal mines were rated. It simply proposed to obviate the complaints that mines were rated in the most contradictory manner. The real question before
 850 s.;
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said he thought the proceedings of the Committee would be facilitated if it were decided that the Bill should hare nothing to do with coal mines.
 MR. CORRANCE  contended that the proposition for a deduction of 33 per cent was one which ought to be thoroughly considered by the House before it was adopted. He did not think it had been so considered, and his hon. Friend would in his opinion act wisely in withdrawing, at all events, that part of the clause.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he would suggest that, as there seemed to be so much difficulty with respect to the assessing of coal mines, it would be well that the portion of the Bill relating to it should be withdrawn, to be re-introduced next Session in a better form by the Government. In Lancashire three or four different plans of assessment prevailed, and it would be desirable that one uniform system should be established.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he wished to point out that mining in Cornwall was at present in a depressed condition, and that if this principle of rating were applied there it would greatly aggravate the distress. The copper mines among others should be very tenderly dealt with.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he objected to the application of a particular mode of rating to particular descriptions of property. He thought that all property liable to pay poor rates should be rated according to the general system, and that it would be inexpedient to lay down a special principle with regard to the assessment of mines. All that was necessary was a short clause to abolish the exemption from rating which had hitherto existed in favour of certain underground property, by declaring that every description of mines, not liable to be rated to local rates, should in future be liable to such rates. The general law would then take effect. Another question for consideration was whether, if the law under which persons held leases of property
 851
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he was glad that many difficulties had been cleared away—difficulties which arose chiefly from the variety of absurd conditions under which mining operations were carried on. But that House would make a great mistake if they laid down fixed modes of assessing mines. As a representative of a large coal district, he had always felt that there was very great injustice in the exemption of other forms of mining from the payment of rates, and he was prepared to accept the principle that all mines should be liable to be rated. He believed that the effect of rating mines would in many cases be to shut them; but the question was whether it would not be charitable to do so, because at present they were being worked at a loss. The coal trade of the North had agreed that if the deduction of 33⅓ per cent in their favour suggested by the Valuation Committee of last year were allowed they would consent to be placed in the same category as all other mines.
 MR. READ  said, he regretted that the question of rating woods and plantations had not been dealt with in the Bill.
 MR. BRUCE  protested against this wholesale system of rating mines, the country having received no sufficient notice that such a measure was to be brought forward. The subject was much too important to be handled by a private Member. In his opinion the Government ought to take the matter into their own hands. He would recommend that the assessment of coal mines should be dealt with by a special Bill, to be introduced by the Government next Session.
 LORD HENRY CAVENDISH  said, he would vote for no measure that would transfer the rate from the owner to the occupier.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, that everyone who had spoken appeared to be in favour of the principle of the Bill, but as he did not wish that at that period of the Session some measure on the subject
 852
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT  declined to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if the Committee agreed to that Amendment he would immediately after propose the one he had already described to the House.
 MR. ST. AUBYN  opposed the Amendment. He was very much afraid that profits would be rated.
 MR. KENDALL  also opposed the Amendment. Although he was quite willing that mines should be rated, those in Cornwall were in an exceptional condition.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he could not understand the peculiar exceptional character of the Cornish mines. If they were exhausted or nearly so, the Assessment Committee would prove the fact, or it would be their duty to ascertain it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, all the mines that would be rated under this clause would be rated upon the principle at present adopted, all the circumstances being considered. The measure of the rate would be the value of the mine—that was to say, what could be got as a reasonable rent for a certain number of years. It would have no reference to profits.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he thought the Amendment was fraught with danger.
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT  said, he thought that the occupier should be rated.
 SIR. MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, the question as to the mode of rating arose more properly upon the succeeding clauses of the Bill.
 MR. BRUCE  said, that nothing could be more absurd than the notion about mines being rated on profits. In his part of the country the only consideration with the Assessment Committee was the rent that a tenant would give from year to year.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that in consequence of the acceptance of his Amendment the other clauses of the Bill were rendered unnecessary or inapplicable. The only question that remained was as to the proportion of the rate to be paid by the landlord. This was a matter of considerable importance, and it would be better to report Progress and bring up a well-considered clause on the Report.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  staled that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), in conjunction with himself, would propose a clause on the bringing up of the Report to settle the proportion of the rates to be paid by the landlord and the tenant.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  objected, on the ground that the old Councillors were appointed under the Act of 1858, for ten years, at a salary of £1,200 a year, with the prospect of holding their offices for life or receiving a pension on retiring at the end of the ten years. To propose now that they should cease to serve at the end of their ten years and receive no pension was unjust, especially as the new Councillors would be appointed at
 859
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, he thought it so necessary that some limit should be put to the term for which the old Councillors should serve that he was quite willing to allow them the pension.
 MR. HANKEY  said, the time had expired for dealing with this matter.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the time had not expired. The Act under which the present Councillors were appointed expressly stipulated that Parliament should have the power of re-considering the terms on which they accepted office. This being so, he thought it monstrous that anyone should say, "The ten years is nearly up; these men have served with the prospect of a pension during these ten years; and therefore it would be unjust to step in and say, Parliament, on re-consideration, could not grant the pensions." He hoped the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for India would consider the question in a reasonable and intelligent manner. It would be better even to let them serve ten years more at £1,500 than that no limit should be agreed on. He might observe that they were for the most part in the receipt of pensions paid out of the revenues of India, and incidentally he must protest against the double system of pensions now growing up; pensions were obtained for special services in India from the Indian Government in India, and then they were obtained again, on the general ground of length of service, from the Indian Revenue, through the Office in England.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had forgotten one matter—namely, that the pensions from India were bought, being derived from stoppages from pay. He (Mr. Stuart Mill) quite agreed that an ample salary rendered a retiring pension unnecessary. But there would be a hardship if, when the expectation of pensions had been held out to the existing Councillors, they were deprived of pensions in the end. If an increase of salary were to be given instead, that increase should range over a fresh series of ten years. But the reason which induced the House to limit the service of future Councillors should prevent it from con-
 860
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought faith ought to be kept with the old Councillors, and that common honesty required it should be optional with them whether they accepted any new terms in place of those under which they took office. He did not see why the salary should be raised to £1,500, because many of the Councillors would soon have a right to a Civil Service pension on account of thirty years' service.
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  said, he thought it morally out of the power of Parliament to withhold the pension, because virtually the full term had expired, and it was in consequence of that expiration the Bill was brought in. If the old Councillors had served only five years, the propriety of granting the pensions might be questioned; but it only wanted some forty days of the ten years.
 MR. OTWAY  said, the Act would never have passed if it had been supposed that the appointments would have the permanent character now claimed for them. He would, however, support the suggestion of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), which seemed to be a fair compromise between the proposition of the noble Lord and that of the Government.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought the suggestion of the hon. Member for Westminster could best be dealt with in a new clause. At present he was neither prepared to accept nor to reject the proposition, but desiring fully to consider it, he recommended the withdrawal of the Amendment and the introduction of a new clause, to which he promised to give careful consideration.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he would be happy to bring up a new clause.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he rose to move that the salary of the new Councillors should be £1,200, and not £1,500. Some officers of State received no more, and members of the Board of Admiralty received only £1,000. Feeling that there might be an injustice in turning members of the Council adrift without recognition of their services, he thought that a graduated scale of pensions might not be indefensible. But there was a great danger of
 861
 COLONEL HOGG  said, that if it were not proposed to give retiring pensions to men of the class whose service it was sought to enlist, they ought at least to pay them proper salaries. The hon. Gentleman, he thought, would have shown better taste and more discretion had he consulted those having official knowledge of the subject about the labours which members of the Council were actually called on to undertake before submitting his present Amendment. The Councillors were a very hard-working body of men, and were quite entitled to £1.500 a year each.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that if it was not for the Council the Government of India would be left wholly to the Secretary of State—who before his appointment was generally ignorant of Indian affairs—and to such irresponsible persons as he might choose to consult, who if he had a pre-conceived opinion would be likely to share it. The Secretary of State would be left with no regular assistance but that of the subordinates in his office. Of the latter, having himself been included in the number, he entertained, generally speaking, a very high opinion; but he did not think Parliament and the country would approve of handing over the government of India entirely to them. It was absolutely necessary that there should be associated with them some men of standing, of professional knowledge,
 862
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that the salary of £1,200 hitherto had been accompanied with some expectation of a pension. In proposing, therefore, to fix it at £1,200, without any pension, the hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway) was practically lowering their position. He entirely agreed with the view taken by the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) and thought the sum proposed by the Bill by no means too great.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the proposal in the Bill was not to improve the position of existing members of the Council. The increase of salary applied only to future appointments. The House had decided that in justice Members of the Council should be appointed for a term of years only; and then came the question what was to happen on the expiration of that term. Clearly, it would not be right to lay on the revenues of India an indefinite number of pensions; but if not, they must be prepared to pay the fair market value of those services which they desired to obtain. The persons required were those whose names would carry' weight, not only here, but in India; for if we rested merely upon clerks brought up and trained in this country, however valuable their assistance might be, it would fail entirely to command that sort of respect which attached to the recommendation of persons whose names were familiarly known. On the other hand, by introducing into the Council men of different careers, who had served in different parts of India, and who looked upon questions in a totally different light from that in which purely official minds regarded them, very obvious advantages were gained. A discussion arose upon a recent occasion in the Council with regard to the mode in which a certain canal was to be made, and the territories through which it was to pass. As far as the correspondence went, or the
 863
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  thought it would be false economy to reduce the pension of members of Council, as proposed by the hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway).
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, there was a growing disposition in certain clerical quarters to dispute the supremacy of lay authority, and therefore he looked with some jealousy on the proposal in this clause to free the clergy from making the declaration as to the Royal Supremacy which was imposed upon them by the Clerical Subscription Act three years ago. He was a member of the Commission on whose Report this Bill was framed, but he did not remember that this point had come under their consideration. He was also a member of the Commission on Clerical Subscriptions, and the point was brought before them and discussed, but the great majority of the Commissioners were against it. Under these circumstances he should move that the words exempting the clergy from the present declaration be omitted from the clause.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that, up to the present time, the cost of the Irish Railway Commission had been a little over £22,000. It could hardly be said that the labours of the Commissioners had been finally closed, because the Commissioners in their Report stated that if there was any other question on which they could afford assistance to the Government they would be happy to do so. With regard to the latter part of the hon. Baronet's Question, it was sub-
 848
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the recommendations of the Commissioners for which the right hon. Gentleman had expressed such a preference were against the adoption of the words "the succession according to law." In reference to what had also fallen from the right hon. Gentleman he had always believed that any pretension to the Crown of France had long been abandoned. If there was any doubt about the point the Government ought to bring in a Bill formally abandoning any such idea, though if that were done the lingering attachment which still existed in the minds of certain Sovereigns on the Continent, and especially at the Court of Rome, to the House of Stuart should, in an international sense, be equally repudiated. He thought that the Act of Settlement ought to be recited in the Oath taken by Members of that House, and he therefore moved an Amendment to the clause, the effect of which would be to include the recital of the words of that Act.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would not have raised this question if he had not been supported by the unanimous opinion of Parliament two years ago. He believed there was an ambiguity in the phrase "according to law," while there was none about the Act of Settlement. Some years ago Mr. Dillon, a Roman Catholic Member of the House, said of that Oath, what they
 857 per invidiam
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, before the House went into Committee upon this Bill he wished to draw attention to the difference between the form of Oath proposed in the present Bill to be taken by high officers of State and the Oath of Allegiance which Parliament, after twelve years' discussion, decided should be taken by Members of that House. By this Bill a very important departure was made from the terms of the Act of 1866. By that Act the Oath was as follows:—
 "I, A. B., do swear that I will be faithful and boar true Allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria; and I do faithfully promise to maintain and support the Succession to the Crown as the same stands limited and settled by virtue of the Act passed in the reign of King William III., intituled 'An Act for the further Limitation of the Crown, and better securing the Rights and
 854 "I do swear that I will be faithful and bear true Allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, Her Heirs and Successors, according to Law; So help me GOD." "I, A. B., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true Allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and will defend Her to the utmost of my Power against all Conspiracies and Attempts that shall be made against Her Power, Crown, or Dignity." "And I do faithfully promise to maintain and support the Succession to the Throne as the sama stands limited and settled by an Act passed in the reign of King William III., intituled 'An Act for the further Limitation of the Crown, and the better securing the Rights and Liberties of the Subject.'"
 MR. SYNAN  contended that in promising to maintain the succession as by law established hon. Members bind themselves to the Act of Settlement, which really was the law upon this subject.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he thought that the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) ought to strongly support this Bill if he had such an aversion to Oaths, because it proposed to repeal a large number of those at present imposed.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would remind the hon. Member that the
 856
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he regretted that no Notice had been given of so important an Amendment. He believed that in the Clerical Subscription Act no new Oath was imposed—there was simply a reference to the old Oath, and it was that old Oath which this Bill proposed to abolish. The clergy, would, he believed, be subject to a sufficient number of declarations with regard to the Supremacy if the clause were carried in its present form.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the form of Oath proposed by the Bill had been settled by the Commission which had sat for a considerable period to inquire into this subject and by a Committee of the House of Lords which went fully into the question. For himself, he had no objection to take the Oath of Allegiance at the table, but he did not think there was any material alteration from it in the present Bill. Both the Commissioners and the Committee of the House of Lords came to the conclusion that it was necessary to make the form of Oath as concise and clear as possible, pledging those taking it to bear true allegiance to Her Majesty and her successors, but avoiding entering into any historical matters. One objection to the present Oath taken by Members of that House, was that it declared the succession of the Crown to be based upon the Act of William III., which claimed for the Sovereign of this country a right to the Crown of France. The Oath proposed in the Bill was in fact a resignation of that claim. He could not assent to the suggestion of the hon. Member, as he thought that the form of Oath proposed in the Bill was calculated to fulfil the purpose they had in view.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he objected altogether to Oaths, which he regarded purely as relics of a bygone barbarism. The less a man swears the better. What was the use of this Oath? There was no doubt that Parliament could alter the succession, and was this Oath intended to burden them if they wished to do so? Besides, if a man did not do his duty, no Oath would bind him. He did not see why there should be so many different Oaths. They were so numerous that one could hardly get them by heart. He thought they should amalgamate some of the Oaths in this Bill, though for his own part, thinking Oaths entirely unnecessary, he should be glad to see the Bill got rid of altogether.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What, up to the present time, has been the cost of the Irish Railway Commission; when the Return, ordered on the 24th of June last, of the details of the expenditure of that Commission will be laid upon the Table of the House; and, whether the labours of that Commission are now closed, or whether there is any foundation for the statement that has been made in the Public Press, that the Commissioners have been asked by the Government for a Supplemental Report with reference to the purchase of Irish Railways?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to direct attention to the fact that the Act of Settlement stood on exactly the same footing as any other Act of Parliament, and was binding upon all her Majesty's subjects until it was repealed. Its validity required no more the recognition of an Oath than did the Statute of Frauds or the Statute of Uses. The old Oath of Allegiance was praised by Lord Hale for not being entangled with intricate clauses, and yet comprehending the whole duty of subject to Sovereign. The proposed Oath was in some measure a return to that Oath.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House Copies of Captain Galton's Memorandum on the Draft Regulations of the Control scheme, with the Reply by the Controller in Chief; and of the Draft Regulations for an independent and efficient audit of Military Expenditures, as prepared by the Controller in Chief?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether he proposes
 912
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that owing to the pressure of the Business of the Session it had not been in his power to bring forward a measure for the settlement of the question between the parochial board and the railway company, and it could not be expected that any would be passed in the present Session.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he understood that Reports had been made to the War Office by the Officers who had been employed by this Government in the last campaign between Prussia and Austria as to the number of rounds per gun fired during the campaign. He wished to know, Whether these Reports would be laid on the Table?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that he had made careful inquiries into the subject, and had found that it was impossible to frame any general rule that was applicable to all cases. In the case of any prisoner refusing to state what his religion was directions had been given that the Governor of the Gaol should make a Special Report to the Government upon the subject, when full inquiry would be made into the circumstances of the case. It would not do to permit any prisoner, by declining to state what his religion was,
 913
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that the appointment of an Assistant Commissioner did not rest with the Government. He had had a communication with the Chairman of the Commission, who had informed him that, with the unanimous concurrence of his colleagues, he had selected a gentleman who had been lately engaged upon an ecclesiastical inquiry similar to that of the Royal Commission in different parts of the United Kingdom, especially in Scotland, and they were unanimously of opinion that in selecting that gentleman they were selecting a man who was best able to perform the duties to be intrusted to him.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I rise to second the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, to which I am sure that this House will, as on former occasions, accede with unanimity and with the greatest cordiality. The domestic relations of the members of the Royal Family have assumed, to the great satisfaction of the country, a position in recent times which is almost novel with regard to the degree in which the people of the country are permitted to become acquainted with them, and the interest of the people in those domestic relations is proportionately enhanced. All that tends to exhibit the Royal Family, and the various groups of the Royal Family, in the light and attitude before the eyes of the nation of families knit together by mutual affection, and growing and prospering in mutual love, gives cordial satisfaction to the country in all classes and throughout all parts. It is undoubtedly quite true that we derive, as the right hon. Gentleman has said, an additional pleasure from the mercy which has been vouchsafed to the Prince and Princess of Wales upon the present occasion, from observing that no new strain has been imposed upon, no renewed detriment has occurred to the constitution of one whose pure and lofty character, and whose gracious manners have, not less than her high station, caused her to be an object of the greatest interest.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he felt that this was an exceptional matter; and though lion. Members had, no doubt, a right to demand at the hands of her Majesty's Government time to enable them to propose Amendments which they desired to bring forward, he could not but acknowledge that the question of time was really a pressing one. The right hon. Gentleman, on the other hand, would no doubt give due weight to any suggestions that might be made. He desired, however, to ask the right hon. Gentleman—and if the right hon. Gentleman could not give an answer at present he might, perhaps, be able to do so to-morrow—what it was proposed to do with regard to a point of considerable importance—limiting the duration of a Bill which, after all, was of an experimental character?
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the Lords had made an Amendment in the Definition Clause, which enabled him to move an Amendment thereon, within the rules of this House. He should briefly explain the objects of the Amendment. It was agreed, when the Bill was in the House of Commons, that all the words about rating should be struck out. That was done in all the other clauses; but in the Definition Clause, by an oversight, the alteration was not made. The Definition Clause says a house shall "include any part of a house occupied as a separate dwelling, which dwelling is separately rated to the relief of the poor," whereas the clauses of the Bill made it sufficient that a householder should be placed on the Valuation Roll, and not in arrear of poor rates, to entitle him to the franchise. In Edinburgh this definition would disfranchise 4,500 persons who occupied premises of a less value than £4—premises which were not rated and which, therefore, could not have paid the rates of the poor; and he believed there were other burghs which were similarly situated. The effect of the Amendment he had to propose, would be to suspend the operation of the rating sentence in the clause during the present year; and all the parties affected could be rated next year. What he now proposed was merely to add the words, "after the expiration of the present year, and," in the place pointed out after the word "levied." In the city he represented there were 4,500 householders who would not enjoy the franchise under the Amendment during the present year, because the Poor Law authorities did not think it worth while to lay on and collect the small rate they might have obtained from those persons; but he apprehended that the House was most anxious that every man who was a householder should be placed on the register.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, one of the main principles of the Bill was that no person should be entitled to be put upon the register who did not pay to the relief of the poor. In the course of the discussion, however, it was agreed that the test of being rated to the relief of the poor should not be insisted on that year; but the Lords have made an alteration in the clause, by which that object was to be effected; and the result was that certain parties were not at present entitled to be put on the register because they had not been put to the test of paying to the relief of the poor. There was no doubt, however, that they would be entitled to be put on the register in future years, after they had been put to the test.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought the hon. Member for Edinburgh had done good service in the Amendment he had brought forward, because the clause to which he had drawn attention was inconsistent with the Amendment which he himself proposed, and which was carried during the earlier part of the discussions on the Scotch Reform Bill. He did not think the matter ought to be passed over in quite so light and airy a manner as that in which it had just been dealt with by the Lord Advocate; and, for his own part, he should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Edinburgh.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Edinburgh would persevere in the Amendment he had proposed, and that it would meet with the acceptance of the House.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, the Amendment of the hon. Member for Edinburgh was one to which he trusted he might express a hope that the Lord Advocate would agree.
 COLONEL JERVIS  rose to put a Question to the Secretary of State for War, respecting the proposed position and duties of the Controller-in-Chief, and to move a Resolution thereon. In consequence of the disasters arising out of the defective military organization during the Crimean War inquiries were made into the state of various War Departments. A vast chaos seemed to exist, Departments being without heads, and beads without control. That came out most clearly in the Committee of 1860 on Organization, and Lord Herbert recommended that they should most seriously consider the importance of introducing the French Intendance system. Lord De Grey, when at the head of the War Office, very properly brought forward the question, and recommended that the Administrative Departments of the War Office, which were under a dozen different heads, should be brought under the control of one chief. They could not over-estimate the importance of such a position. In fact, the officer in that position would  bonâ fide 923 924
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN , in seconding the Motion, said, he agreed with the remark of the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich (Major Jervis) that for the last ten or twelve years the War Department had been remarkable for confusion, extravagance, and blundering. It had been with some feeling of relief that those interested in the subject looked forward to the Report of the Committee presided over by Lord Strathnairn, as they saw in it germs of future change, which would alter not only the regulation of this Department, but also those of other important branches of the administration of the army. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War, by showing a determination to carry the recommendations contained in that Report into effect, had earned the gratitude and the approbation of all parties. There was a general desire on the part of the country that the army should be more economically and more efficiently administered. While, the present administration of the War Office might appear ludicrous to lookers-on it was death to the army. The spirit of self-immolation upon which the right hon. Gentleman had relied for effecting improvements in the administration of the War Department was not likely to show itself in any marked
 925 926
 THE MAHQUESS OF HARTINGTON , though under no obligation to defend the recommendations of the Treasury, was bound to say he was much obliged to the Government for the part they had taken in the matter, and consequently disagreed with every hot). Member who had as yet spoken on the subject. If the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich (Major Jervis) had correctly described the duties of the Controller, his Motion would follow as a necessary consequence. If they gave a man the control of an expenditure of £13,000,000, and decided that he should be really independent and nobody should have a right to call in question his action, in what respect would his powers differ from those of the Secretary of State, except that the latter would be responsible to that House, and the Controller would be
 930
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he thought it very important to have the Letter, not only as showing the views of the Secretary for War, but also in order that any just criticisms might be passed upon the document. It had been the prevailing opinion out of doors—whether with or without sufficient foundation he did not know—that it had been the intention of the War Office to establish a new Department, with such powers and authority that the financial control of which he had spoken would be, if not altogether destroyed, at least very seriously weakened. If any such proposal as that made by the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich were adopted, the financial control would be entirely done away with. But, even short of the re-organization recommended by that hon. and gallant Member, a system might be adopted which, although not entirely doing away with that control, would yet very seriously impair it. Whatever fault might have attached to the War Office—and it had enjoyed the distinction of being about the best abused Office in the king—dom—there had always existed control of a civilian character perfectly independent of the military element. As Sir Charles Trevelyan's letter in  The times 931 932 The Times 933 934
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Before the Secretary for War replies to the hon. Baronet who has just sat down, I should like to introduce one other subject to the notice of the Committee, as this may be the last appropriate opportunity of doing so this Session. Two months ago the Secretary for War made some observations regarding the expenditure of the present Government, and accompanied them by an attack upon the administration of the late Government. The right hon. Baronet referred principally to the increases in the Votes for Men and for Armaments, and the effect of his observa-
 949 950 951 952 d
 GENTERAL PEEL : I came down here with great curiosity to know how my noble Friend) the Marquess of Hartington) was to justify that address which he has made to his constituents—in which he has said that the present Government have greatly raised the Army Estimates without securing increased efficiency—while ho is prepared to maintain that the Government to which he belonged maintained the army in efficiency with an expenditure much less
 953 d 954
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he hoped his hon. and gallant Friend would not persevere in dividing the Committee, because if he did so he would fail in securing the object he had in view. It had been distinctly stated that the money was only required to alter and improve, and not to extend the machinery establishments of the Government. He trusted that his hon. and gallant Friend would not persevere with his Amendment.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he had heard with regret the reply of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War with reference to rewarding the inventors. The principle had never before been laid down that officers of the Government were not to be rewarded for inventions, and it was not fair that this new principle should be applied in the case of Colonel Boxer without warning. Mr. Fraser had been rewarded with the sum of £5,000. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman had offered Colonel Boxer an increase of salary to the amount of £200 or £300; but as Colonel Boxer's appointment would only last two years longer, he would receive no more than £600 from his additional pay if he had accepted the offer. He thought Colonel Boxer had done right in refusing it.
 COLONEL JERVIS  congratulated the right hon. Baronet on his sudden conversion, foe last year he was not able to convince the right hon. Baronet it was not right to allow officers to take out patents for inventions of a similar character to those on the merits of which they might have to decide.
 MAJOK JERVIS  complained that the salaries of the Controller General and the General in charge of the Reserve Army were not included in this Vote.
 MAJOR JERVIS  said, he would like to know whether the Controller General was to rank as an Under Secretary of State?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he hoped the next Parliament would take up the question of the constitution of the War Department of the country, because if such were done it would be found to be the worst administered and the most expensive part of the public service. The question, moreover, of the relationship between the Secretary at War and the Commander-in-Chief also required serious consideration.
 MR. GLADSTONE  doubted whether any benefit would arise from referring the Bill to a Select Committee at this period of the year; otherwise, he thought it might be advisable to do so. The practice into which the House had gradually fallen upon this subject was very objectionable. Persons had lent money for making turnpike roads, and obtained a lien over the tolls for a certain number of years. He could not conceive anything more clear in principle than that those persons were bound by their bargain for a term of years, and that that bargain affected no other persons whatever. If they had had to deal with individuals, did anyone think that an individual standing in the place of the trust who had entered into a covenant of that kind would have allowed the term to be renewed and the tolls to be continued for the benefit of the other party to the contract who had entered into a wrong bargain? But here the bargain was between an individual, on the one side, and that patient animal the public, on the other. When individual claims came into contact with public rights, they obtained a sanction to which they were not entitled, and the public went to the wall. They had thus got into a difficulty with respect to a series of facts for which the right hon. Gentleman was no more responsible than others who had gone before him; but abuses so gross derived a certain amount of authority from the long lapse of time and the repetition of the oftence. Any proceeding adopted on the impulse of the moment would probably substitute a practical injustice for what was a gross injustice in principle; but he hoped the House would be prepared, when there was time for consideration of the subject, to take some serious proceeding for the settlement
 970
 MAJOR ANSON  said, the articles manufactured in the public Departments amounted to £200,000, while those furnished by private enterprize amounted only to £10,000. This was not sufficient inducement to the private manufacturers to cause a competition. He was convinced that the only way to stop the Government making such an unaccountable expenditure as that proposed in this Vote was by taking the sense of the House by a vote on the subject.
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he had studied the Report of the Committee referred to by the right hon. Gentleman; but all he could derive from it was the conclusion
 962
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he had on a former occasion gone into this question at some length, and therefore he would not trouble the House farther than to say that they had no information whatever how this Vote was to be applied. Much had been said about army control; but the fact was that the House had no control whatever over the Manufacturing Departments. They had no information before them as to what would be the result of this addition to the plant of the Department. He begged, therefore, to move that the Vote be reduced by £43,442, the sum required for new machinery. He would divide the Committee upon his Amendment.
 MR. BOUVERIE  thought that if by an additional outlay the result would be attained of having the work thoroughly done it would be a great advantage to the country. He had himself known large estates to be transferred by means of those maps, the map of the district being attached to the transfer.
 LORD ELCHO  testified to the great accuracy of the Ordnance maps of Scotland; and pointed out that the length of time occupied in completing the survey of the whole kingdom depended on the amount of money which Parliament was ready to vote for the purpose. The calculation, he believed, had been that the entire work in England and Scotland would be executed in fifteen years with a grant of £100,000 a year.
 LOKD ELCHO  asked the Secretary of State for War to postpone the Vote, in.
 967
 LORD ELCHO  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that at an early period of the Session the question was raised as to whether the Capitation Grant was or was not sufficient. An impression then prevailed that before the close of this Session a Commission would be appointed to decide the question. He had asked the Secretary of State whether he would appoint a Special Commission to ascertain who was right on the question.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that although many questions of importance had been brought before Parliament in the present Session, the question of the proper control of our Army Department was the most important administrative question of the day, inasmuch as it dealt with an expenditure of £13,000,000. He was, afraid, however, that the good which it was hoped would arise from the appointment of a Chief Controller was in great danger of being obviated, seeing the views which were entertained on the subject by the occupants of the Treasury and the front Opposition Benches. His noble Friend the late Secretary for War (the Marquess of Hartington), for instance, had got up, and, after nearly every previous speaker had expressed himself strongly against the existing as well as against the proposed system, as laid down in the Papers which had been placed on the table, argued in favour of a check being maintained by the Treasury over the Controller—a view in which he was apparently supported by his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Chiklers), who cheered him at the close of his speech. The House, nevertheless, would do well, he thought, to pause before it accepted the I dicta of right hon. and hon. Gentlemen I who were, or who had been in Office, and
 935 in esse in posse 936 937 in esse posse "That it is the opinion of this House that the system of control and army supply proposed to be introduced into Ireland on the 1st of April last, at set forth in the letter of the 6th of March, 1868, addressed to the Treasury, be forthwith put into operation."
 LORD ELCHO  said, he was glad if the advanced period of the Session had prevented the hon. Member (Mr. Wyld) from moving for another Committee, because that question of the Ordnance Survey had suffered greatly through the alternate hot and cold fits which that House had exhibited on the subject. In consequence of an objection taken some years ago to the scale of the survey by the late Mr. Ellice, a full inquiry was instituted, and the Committee came to the deliberate conclusion that the survey was both based on sound principles and was being admirably conducted. The survey was executed not only most accurately, but economically; and he was told that at the present moment a Prussian officer, a good authority on such a subject, who had come to this country, was surprised to find that so perfect a survey had been carried out so cheaply.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that about ten days ago he asked the Secretary of State for War whether the Government intend to institute any inquiry as to the rumours of insubordination of Volunteers after the Windsor Review, and with the view of taking steps after that inquiry, he wished now to ask, Whether that inquiry has taken place, and whether the Government intend to take any action with regard to the result of it?
 MR. DENMAN  said, he had received an authentic report of Mr. Justice Smith's judgment from Mr. Scott, the official reporter of the Court of Common Pleas, from which it appeared that the house to which it related was built with six rooms for one family, and afterwards let in separate rooms to six persons, there being only one street door and one set of domestic offices for the whole. The owner did not live there, or exercise any supervision. The effect of the decision, as stated by the Judge himself was, that by the operation of the 7th section of the Act occupiers of small houses and separate parts of houses would for the future be liable to be rated, whatever might be the value of their holdings, notwithstanding the Small Tenements Act, and the owners would no longer be rated. Such occupier would be qualified to vote on the occupation franchise; but as regarded the occupiers of lodgings, where the house was separately let out when the Act was passed, the owner and not the occupier would be rated, and the occupants might claim under the lodger franchise. It was well that the real scope of the decision should be known, in order that overseers might not attempt to strain it, and thus exclude from the franchise persons whom the Court did not intend to disfranchise.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, in reply, that the importation was not from Algiers, but from Tangier. Last May the Government were asked for permission to land cattle from that locality, and they having ascertained that neither the cattle plague nor any other contagious disease existed in that part of Africa, gave the required leave. The cattle were inspected on arrival by Professor Simmons and the Custom House authorities. Only a very few suffered from any disease, and that not a contagious disease; but it was true that they were all starved and had suffered much from the voyage. He did not think that there would be any other such importation, for the importer could obtain no sale for the cattle, and he has suffered great loss from the transaction.
 MR. AYRTON  desired to know how it was possible that lion. Members could pro pose any Amendments on clauses which they would not receive till to-morrow morning. Hon. Members would, by the course now proposed, be virtually deprived of the opportunity of proposing any Amendments; and he trusted, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would to-morrow proceed with the other portions of the Bill instead of with these clauses.
 MR. DISRAELI : I should have thought that four or five hours devoted uninterruptedly to the Bill would have been sufficient for all purposes.
 MR. DISRAELI : I shall move tomorrow that the House take into consideration, in Committee, Her Majesty's most gracious Message.
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan) asked me some short time ago what was the course which Her Majesty's Government intended to take with reference to the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill, which stands as the sixth Order upon the Paper for to-day. I then said I thought it would be more convenient to reserve my reply until I had the opportunity of stating to the House what our intentions were generally with regard to this Bill. The important decision at which the Committee upon this Bill arrived the other night virtually brought back the Bill to the scheme originally proposed by Her Majesty's Government. Therefore, so far as Her Majesty's Government are concerned, that plan has been the result of very deep deliberation. It was of course the decision of the Committee. Although we did not think ourselves justified in adopting the course which apparently the House had rejected some months previously—or at least the course which it had not sufficiently encouraged Her Majesty's Government to proceed with—we did not think, considering the position of the House generally, and the approaching termination of the Session, that we ought to run the great risk of assenting to that proposition. We thought, on the whole, that it would be more prudent to adhere to the Bill as it was introduced to the notice of the Committee. The Committee, however, having come to a decision, and by an unequivocal majority expressed an opinion upon the subject, it appears to me it would be a matter very deeply to be lamented if we should allow any difficulties to prevent us
 916 917
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise, Sir, to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty to congratulate Her Majesty upon the birth of a Princess to the Royal Consort of the Heir Apparent. The Prince and Princess of Wales live so much among the nation that on an occasion like the present it is impossible that such a domestic event should not excite some political feeling. While I am sure that we shall cordially and unanimously assure Her Majesty of the satisfaction with which we hear that by the birth of another member of the Royal Family there is an additional security for the continuance of the dynasty with which are so indissolubly connected the liberties of the country, we can, at the same time, express our feelings of gratification at the restored health of the Princess of Wales—a fact which I am certain must be to the people of this country a source of infinite satisfaction. I move, therefore, that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty to congratulate
 914
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he did not think it desirable at this period of the Session to introduce a Bill to give effect to the recommendation of the Committee on the subject of Rates; but the overseers had the power of doing voluntarily that which the Committee recommended should be compulsory—that was to say, they might collect by instalments, or they might make quarterly rates.
 MR. DISRAELI : By the Act of last Session, so far as the franchise of boroughs was concerned, the House gave it, and intended to give it, to every householder rated to the poor who paid his rate, and to every lodger who lived in a lodging of the clear annual value of £10 per annum. I do not understand that the decision of the Court of Common Pleas has impugned either of these qualifications, which are the qualifications of the new suffrage. The hon. Gentleman says that a great number of persons have been disfranchised in consequence of a section of the Act which provides that the owner of all tenements let out in several dwellings should be rated. If there is a section, and no doubt there; is, to that effect in the Act of last year, it is not the 7th, which was not at all passed in reference to the suffrage, but merely in regard to rating; nor was it introduced by Her Majesty's Government. I cannot myself say what number of persons may have been deprived of the vote they expected to enjoy in consequence of the decision of the Court of Common Pleas. I should myself imagine that the original estimate of the hon. Gentleman must have been greatly exaggerated; but there is no reason whatever why those persons should not claim to be rated under the provisions of the Act of last year, and if their claim is a valid claim it will be allowed. Therefore I do not clearly understand what it is that the hon. Gentleman maintains, and certainly I am not prepared to introduce any measure which would impugn the prin-
 907
 MR. DISRAELI : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman would not object to take the more legitimate course of bringing on the subject on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply. By this means the necessity for moving the adjournment of the House would be avoided.
 MR. NEATE  thought that the statement of the case by the light hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire a very unjust one. He contended that a limit was fixed in the first instance, not with a view to the discontinuance of the tolls at the end of the period, but in order to give Parliament a power of revision where that might be necessary.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he is willing to produce a Return of a Copy of the censure passed by the Horse Guards upon the members of the Court Martial appointed to try an acting Sergeant Major of the Grenadier Guards, on account of the leniency of the sentence they had passed upon him, such censure having since been virtually abandoned, but without any explanation or justification of the grounds of such censure upon the members of that Court Martial, one of whom is a Member of this House, and to make a Motion. The hon. Member stated that in or about the month of April an acting Sergeant Major of the Grenadier Guards was sent to a Volunteer corps with regard to a quantity of ammunition, on which occasion the Volunteers pressed on him their hospitality, the result of which was the absence of the acting Serjeant Major for six hours and the loss of parade. For this he was tried and sentenced to be reduced to the grade of a simple sergeant, whereby he would lose 10d. a day. The
 921
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that if the Government establishments were conducted on the same principles as those on which private workshops were managed, the keeping up of existing machinery would come into the profit and loss of the year. He thought that the present discussion showed how deceptive were all the statements made respecting Government manufactures, and the sooner these establishments were dropped the better.
 GENERAL DUNNE  inquired whether a gun of any heavy calibre had been fixed on for arming the fortifications now in course of construction; and whether any changes in the field gun now in use had been adopted for the army? The late military Government—if it could be termed a Government'—did nothing in regard to this matter; they had left the service practically unarmed, while other European nations were adopting improvements; and he wished to know whether we were still in a state of transition, or whether any definite conclusion had been at length arrived at?
 GENERAL DUNNE  observed, that the increase was principally for civil assistants, and preparation of maps for civil purposes.
 GENERAL DUNNE  remarked that confusion had not always existed in the War Department; it began in 1852 and 1854, through the proceedings of the then Secretary of State for War and his successors, who pulled the whole system to pieces, and, as children over a puzzle, had pulled the Department to pieces, and had been unable to put it in any sort of shape since. He was glad to find the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) had begun to try his hand at putting this Department in order, because, if for no other reason, his action in the matter acknowledged the necessity of speedy reform; and the nearer he approached the system of the old Ordnance Department, which the Duke of Wellington and so many other high authorities had said was the best in the world, the more perfect he would make it. It was said that the framing of the Estimates and the Department to which this responsibility was to be entrusted, was now a subject of discussion, but as to the framing of the Estimates, nothing, it seemed to him, could be more plain. Whatever system was in vogue, the Cabinet must always decide on the amount of money to be spent on the army, and the heads of Departments, whatever their office, would be obliged to keep their expenditure within that limit. But when the sum was decided, the Executive should alone frame the application and be responsible for the expenditure. In his opinion it would be easy to form a Department which should work harmoniously under one or more heads. He approved the proposal to keep the Audit Department entirely separate from others, and trusted special attention would be given to surpluses of Votes and transfers in future. This year many sums had been transferred from one Department to another, but no account of them had been rendered to Parliament. For instance, the House voted a sum for the Training of the Irish Militia; the Government of that country had determined not to call them
 928
 GENERAL DUNNE  expressed his concurrence with what had fallen from his right hon. Friend as to the impolicy of giving large money rewards in these cases as a
 966
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he could not understand why the system of control should be tried first in Ireland—a subordinate branch—and not at once in the Head Department in Pall Mall. The organization of the Irish Department would not serve as any test of the success of the system proposed, and if anything effectual was to be done there must be a complete and radical change in the present system, which rendered every military Department inefficient.
 GENERAL DUNNE  bore testimony to the general accuracy of the maps of Ireland produced by the Ordnance Department. He himself did not see the great advantage of the very large survey, except for the towns. It was maps on this large scale that would answer for plans for railways projected, and ordinary maps for the purposes of owners of property; but it must be recollected that for the former more accurate levels than those given on the largest Ordnance maps were requisite, and in the latter that changes of boundary and other objects were so frequent that even on the Irish maps, not many years published, great changes in the face of the country would be seen; but of course, if one part of the country was surveyed upon the large scale, they could hardly avoid executing the remainder of the work in the same uniform manner. The delay, however, had arisen very much from the adoption of the large scale.
 MR. KNIGHT  reminded the House that 620,000 per annum, which was formerly expended in Private Bills for renewing turnpike trusts, was saved by the present procedure. He hoped that if a Select Committee was appointed all the trusts in the kingdom would be referred to it, and that some solution of the question other
 971
 MR. KNIGHT  complained that the maps
 964 desideratum
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  explained that his object in framing the present measure had been to facilitate a settlement of this controversy. He admitted the force of the objection to what was called the secret examination into the trusts at the Home Office, and he had added the Schedules to the Bill with the view of referring them next Session to a Committee, so that the real condition of the trusts might be ascertained, and inquiry might be made as to what ought to be done. There would be great hardship in throwing the maintenance of the roads on small parishes, some of which had comparatively little interest in them. He hoped the House would go into Committee, and he should then consent to reporting Progress.
 MR. BARNETT  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Council, Whether his attention has been drawn to the
 909
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is the intention of the Government to take any steps this Session to give effect to the recommendation contained in the Report of the Select Committee on the subject of Rates, particularly with reference to the payment of Rates by four quarterly collections?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, they had been ordered to be printed. The Paper purporting to be an answer to the Memorandum, however, did not appear to be included in the Papers.
 MR. CHILDERS  doubted the necessity of increasing the sum annually voted for this purpose.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it was disheartening to one who, like himself, thought the proposed change would be conducive to good administration, to find that speeches on the subject had been delivered to an audience consisting at one time of only thirteen Members, nine of whom were soldiers, two officials, and two independent civilians. But however disheartening this might be, he would venture to offer a few words on the subject. And in doing so he was speaking under considerable disadvantage, because, in one sense, this was essentially a question of detail, and some of the most important Papers were really not placed before the House. The Royal Warrant of the 28th of April was the subject of a long Paper by the Treasury, and that important Letter was by accident omitted to be published. The other Papers did not touch some of the questions raised by the Treasury; and it was very embarrassing not to have the real facts before them, but to have to dig them out from letters which only answered the express proposal and to go back to Lord
 945 946 947 948
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is true, as stated in the Dublin  Freeman's Journal
 MR. WYLD  said, that this Department, though originally established for a temporary purpose, figured year after year in the Estimates for a very large sum, and
 963
 MR. WYLD  complained that at the present moment it was impossible to obtain a complete set of these maps in London, and he suggested that the publication of the maps should be transferred to the Stationery Office instead of their having to be got from Southampton.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he regretted he could not comply with the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion, as several Questions 'stood for discussion on the Motion forgoing; into Supply: and as there were several lion. Members then present who took an interest in the subject to which he was about to invite the attention of the House, who might not find it convenient to be in, their places at a later hour. The circumstances of the case were these—Stamper was rated for the relief of the poor for the borough of Sundcrland—he being an occupier of a house with five other persons—to the amount of £3 10s. He appealed against being so rated, and the Court of Common Picas on Saturday last sustained that appeal. That decision was based on the construction of the words of the 7th section of the Act of last Session, by which the Court held that with respect to tenements let out in apartments the words "not separately rated" meant not rated at the time of the passing of the Act. The result of that decision went to show that persons similarly situated to Stamper were by the 7th section of the Reform Act debarred from rateability, and ns a consequence from enfranchisement. The extent to which such disfranchisement would be carried was exceedingly serious. It would, he believed, affect upwards of 100,000 persons throughout the country. Such, at all events, was the estimate made by gentlemen well qualified to judge in the matter. He could state confidently that in five boroughs within a radius of twelve miles in the North of England no fewer than 12,000 or 15,000 persons would be disfranchised by the decision of the Court of Common Pleas. The extent of the disfranchisement would, for instance, in Newcastle be about 6,000; in the borough which
 906 v
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that he had given private Notice to the First Lord of the Treasury of his resolve to call the attention of the House to the important de-
 905
 MR. LOCKE  said, he never heard of a man denying that an Ordnance Survey was a good thing. It appeared to him
 965
 MR. LOCKE  remarked that the invariable plea urged by turnpikes for an extension of the period allowed them was that they were in debt. In all cases where this was alleged strict inquiry ought to be made, because in several instances an investigation had shown that turnpikes which pleaded indebtedness were perfectly solvent.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he had not stated that the position of Sir Henry Storks was like that of a waiter. What he had said was that his position resembled that in which the two kings of Brentford found themselves—that there was another on an equality with himself, and that it was utterly impossible that such distinguished officers as Sir Henry Storks could he induced to submit to such a position.
 COLONEL NORTH  complimented the Mover and Seconder of the Resolution for the manner in which they had introduced the subject. He was surprised at the delay of the Government. The Secretary of State had promised that the system should be tried on the 1st of April in Ireland, and it could have been tried under most advantageous circumstances under Lord Strathnairn, who was not only Chairman of the Committee, but Commander-in-Chief in Ireland as well; but it seemed as if the authorities had had their nightcaps on ever since. At length, however, we had a scheme produced by two most able men—Sir Henry Storks and General Balfour; but the whole thing seemed to be regarded by the Treasury from a pounds, shillings, and pence point of view. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: A very important matter.] He had no doubt of that; but contended that pounds, shillings, and pence should not be allowed to interfere with the efficiency of the army and the proper administration of its Departments. The Crimean War had shown what expense was entailed by niggardliness in time of peace. He was surprised that they should expect the Controller-in-Chief to be subordinate to the Financial Secretary. Now, the Minute proposed
 929 from the Treasury Bench
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN , in rising to call attention to the late promotions in the Coldstream Regiment of Guards, said, the complaint that he had to make in connection with them was that the well-known Warrant and rules of the service had been completely disregarded by the military authorities. Some two or three months ago vacancies had occurred in the regiment in question on the promotion of Lieutenant Colonel Clive, and by the rules of the service no officer could be appointed to a company if he did not happen to have served in it two years, it being also necessary that before being made a captain he should pass an examination. At the time of Lieutenant Colonel Clive's promotion there were six or seven of the senior ensigns who had not complied with those conditions. On a former occasion the right lion. Gentleman the Secretary for War quoted the Warrant of the 3rd of February, 1866, setting forth that the vacancies caused by officers being permitted to retire, should be given to the next senior qualified officers, who were prepared to purchase, unless it should be deemed expedient by the Secretary for War to act otherwise, and in that case officers of the same rank should be brought in from half
 922
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that at an earlier period of the Session he had put a Question respecting the case of a prisoner confined in Mountjoy Prison, near Dublin, who had been put on penal diet and under penal regulation for refusing to state his religion. He now begged to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he will state to the House what new rule, if any, he has thought it advisable to lay down in respect to the treatment of prisoners in Ireland who are neither Catholics, Anglicans, or Presbyterians?
 SIRS ROBERT COLLIER  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman was not correct when lie said that those persons could claim to be rated, for, so far as he understood the decision of the Court of Common Pleas, it was to the effect that they could not be rated, lie did not, of course, now propose to impugn the decision of the Court of Common Pleas—it would he extremely inconvenient if the decisions of the Courts of Common Law were to be impugned or canvassed in that House; nor did lie think the Government could fairly be called upon to bring in a Bill for the purpose of settling any doubts which might have been the consequence of that decision, considering the time of the Session at which they were arrived, and that such a Bill would necessarily re-open some questions which might lead to considerable discussions. But he would merely state that the decision of the Court of Common Pleas, although, no doubt, it was a correct decision on the wording of the statute, did not appear to express what was the intention of the House when it passed the clause. He could not help thinking that the intention of the House was that the owner of every separate and distinct tenement in a house, where he was not a lodger with a resident landlord, should be entitled to the franchise, and that his hon. Friend was right in saying that a large number of persons who expected to be enfranchised under the Act, and whom the majority of the House expected to be enfranchised, would not be enfranchised. However, it was too late in the Session to expect Government to bring in a measure, and therefore he trusted his hon. Friend would be satisfied with the answer on that part of the case.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, it was clear that if this sum of £43,000 were granted for improved machinery, the result must be an extension of the manufacturing establishments, unless, indeed, a corresponding quantity of the old machinery were thrown out of use.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  also deprecated any increase, remarking that it was a practice on the part of Governments always to increase the Votes, though, when not in power, they were fond of complaining that their opponents were not economical in their proposals.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If his attention has been called to the following paragraph in the "Hants Telegraph:"—
 "The steamer  Princess of Wales
 MR. MONSELL  said, it had been the practice of the War Department to reward officers for meritorious inventions. In 1856 Colonel Boxer received £5,000 for some inventions of his, and lately Mr. Fraser had received £5,000. Since 1856 Colonel Boxer had distinguished himself by seven or eight other inventions, and several of them, including the invention of a lubricator for the Armstrong gun, had been found of great service. Pie wished to know, whether it was the intention of the Government to take his case into consideration, with the view of conferring on him some additional reward?
 MR. MONSELL  said, that if his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) had read the Report of the Committee which on this question sat two years ago, he would have seen that a very minute investigation was made by that Committee, and that very careful calculations then showed that ordnance was manufactured at Woolwich at considerably less cost than in the works of private manufacturers, for this reason—that private manufacturers would not turn their attention to making breech-loading guns and other articles only used for military purposes without having a reasonable certainty that there would be a continued demand for them. Now, the Government could give no guarantee on the subject, because they could not anticipate what might be required at a future time.
 COLONEL W. STUART  asked for some explanation as to the medical Bills mentioned in the Vote.
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, that if any trust which was in debt was not allowed to be renewed for more than one or two years, he was convinced there would be a
 969
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  wished to know how long the survey was to continue?
 MR. POWELL  said, he hoped that no false economy would stand in the way of the extensive circulation of these maps. They would become a source of national wealth.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that all who, like himself, took an interest in the state of turnpike trusts would be happy to hear from the right hon. Gentleman the explanation he had given of his views on the subject. The Turnpike Continuance Act had grown to be considered a matter of course; and at present no less a sum than £400,000 was paid annually under it. A certain indefinite time might be fixed for its termination, and a Schedule of particulars annexed, so that parties connected with the trusts would know at what time they would expire; and he hoped that a measure for this purpose would be introduced next Session.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, the point raised by the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Candlish), when the Reform Bill was under discussion in Committee last year, applied not to the definition of rating, but to the construction of the word dwelling-house. The hon. Member said that in the borough he represented there were a large number of persons occupying parts of the same house who were separately rated. The question decided by the Court of Common Pleas was, that where the owner was actually rated, and not the occupier, at the time of the passing of the Act, he should so continue under the 7th section. As regarded the number of persons likely to
 908 Sunderland Times s
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had received several letters relating to this matter. He was afraid there could be no doubt that both at Dover and at Portsmouth there had been considerable want of proper and due care in the practice of the artillery; but as the conduct of Officers was involved the House would sec it would be right he should be in possession of the fullest information before he was called upon to say more on the subject. He must decline to give any final answer to the Question till he was in possession of the whole facts of the case. He had not yet received any information from Dover.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not aware that any of the Papers were wanting. He would, however, make inquiry.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in answer to the Question of his lion, and gallant Friend, he had to state that it was true Captain Gallon, the Assistant Under Secretary in the War Office, had written a Memorandum on the Draft Regulations of the Control scheme, and that Sir Henry Storks, the Controller in Chief, had written an answer to that Memorandum. Both the Memorandum and the answer referred to I the first Copy of the Draft Regulations, which had been superseded by the Regulations on the table; and it would conduce to no good end to lay on the table either the Memorandum or the answer; therefore, as at present advised, he must decline to produce those Papers. With reference to the latter part of the Question
 910
 SIB JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in answer to his noble Friend, he had to state that since he answered the Question on a former occasion he had had communication with General Lindsay on the subject, and the result had been he agreed with him that in regard to the conduct of one Regiment a Court of Inquiry should be held. With regard to another, the conduct of the commanding Officer required explanation; and in two instances it had been found necessary to write to the Lords Lieutenant of counties. That was the present state of his information; and, until further information was received, it would be impossible to state what action the Government would take in the matter.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that the House would see at once that he ought not to produce the Papers.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he did not intend to refer the question of increasing the Capitation Grant to the Volunteers to a Commission; but the question would be considered by the Government from time to time with reference to its varying circumstances.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied in the affirmative.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, with respect to the question of the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel W. Stuart), that it was scarcely matter for surprise, considering how the officers and men engaged in the survey were dispersed over the country, that they should sometimes want a doctor.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied that it was not his intention to give any further money reward to Colonel Boxer. He doubted the policy of conferring large money rewards on men in the Government employment for discoveries made in their own particular line, and thought they should rather look to some honorary distinction, or increased emolument in their office. When the Government selected an officer on account of his peculiar personal fitness to discharge the duties of the situation to which he was appointed, they were, he thought, entitled to the full exercise of his professional talents, although he would not go the length of saying that in no case should a grant of money be made. He thought he had taken the last course when he lately offered Colonel Boxer a greatly increased salary.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he had lately refused an application for another reward made by Mr. Fraser.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped his noble Friend the Member for Haddingtonshire would throw no obstacle in the way of proceeding with the Vote. The subject alluded to by his noble Friend had been very fully and ably discussed, and although the House was not very full at the time, still those who were present were the Gentlemen who were most competent to deal with the matter. He was most anxious not only that the Vote should be taken, but acted upon, in the first instance in Ireland. In reply to the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich (Major Jervis) that the salary of the Commander of the Reserve Army was not included in the Vote, he said it was because it would give rise to a good deal of discussion, and it was thought better to take it separately.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that it was so steadily going on that it would take sixteen years to complete it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  vindicated the Department which the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld) had impugned, and also the distinguished man at its head, who, he said, was carrying out an important work in a manner which everyone Ought to approve.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  explained that, although the Government had no intention of extending the operations of the manufacturing establishments, yet they desired to render them as efficient as possible by the introduction of new machinery. In answer to his hon. and gallant friend
 961
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not aware that any change had been made with respect to field guns. Fortification guns were of various sizes, including some very large ones. The question of small arms was still under the consideration of a Committee, which ho hoped would present its Report before the close of the year.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) in regretting that the attendance in the House should be sc thin on an occasion when a question of such great importance to the interest of
 938 939 940 941 942 "Their Lordships think it should be the duty of the Finance Department to compile the Estimates of all army expenditure, as hitherto." 943
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not conscious until that evening of that omission, and he was quite willing to supply it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : If the hon. and gallant Gentleman maintained that the Controller-in-Chief was in that position, all he could say was that that was not his opinion. His hon. and gallant Friend laboured under a great misapprehension, and he, for one, would not have been a party to those Regulations if he had thought for one moment that they would have affected the high, distinguished, and powerful position which the Controller-in-Chief, whether that Controller-in-Chief were Sir Henry Storks or any one else, did and ought to occupy to enable him to carry out the important duties intrusted to him; but he could not help feeling that the view taken by his hon. Friend behind him was one which tended unduly to exaggerate the position in which the Controller-in-Chief ought constantly to be placed. When, however, ho was asked if Sir Henry Storks had not written out his resignation, and whether that resignation had only been withdrawn at his earnest request, nil he could say was that this was the first he had heard of it, and he did not believe that Sir Henry Storks would at this moment abandon the very important duty which he had undertaken, and which now appeared likely to be soon brought to a successful completion. The noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) had remarked that it had been intended to introduce this system into Ireland on the 1st of April, and that that had not yet been done. That was so, but it arose from the fact that before they could attempt to introduce and bring into actual operation this great and mighty change it was necessary to consult the Treasury. There had been a good deal of correspondence on the subject, and he could not think that it was a matter for great surprise that in so great and important a change as this the Departments of the State interested should have time for con-6ideration. When, however, his noble
 944
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  appealed to his lion, and gallant Friend not to press his Motion to a division. It was a mistake to suppose that this sum of £43,442 was required for the purpose of extending the operations of the manufacturing establishments. These operations would not be extended, and, indeed, he shared in the opinion of his hon. and gallant Friend that to a considerable extent, at all events, we ought to obtain our supplies of stores by contract with private firms. The explanation of the increase was that it was caused by such items as these—That in the Gun Carriage Department iron bad been substituted for wood in the manufac-
 960
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am sorry to have to add anything to the not very long, but very effective speech of my right hon. and gallant Friend (General Peel). But the noble Marquess referred so directly to me, especially in connection with a speech made by me in this House, that I must be allowed a few words in reply. In addressing his constituents the noble Lord says that under the present Administration the Army Estimates have been largely increased, and he is prepared to maintain that, while under their predecessors the military expenditure gradually decreased, the efficiency of the army was in no degree diminished. Now, I do not wish to make any unfair imputations; but it is difficult to read this extract without coming to the conclusion with my right hon. and
 955 956 d d 957 d d d "According to the calculation of scientific men competent to give an opinion on the subject, it will be necessary, in order to arm the fortifications which are being constructed, to provide 1,044 additional guns of largo calibre—12-inch, 9-inch, and 7-inch guns—and also 2,600 guns of a lighter character. The right hon. Gentleman, says
 958 Hansard 959
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he had heard with surprise that officers returning home from Abyssinia had been deprived of their travelling allowance. He had given Notice to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is not expedient that officers returning home on account of wounds or diseases contracted in Her Majesty's service shall be deprived of the usual travelling allowance."
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he had always been opposed to the increase of our manufacturing establishments, as he believed that they checked private enterprize, which would supply the country better than these public departments. The question he wished now to press upon his light hon. Friend was this—Had he yet come to a definite conclusion with respect to the guns that were to be adopted? If not, ho thought the hon. and gallant Member (Major Anson) would do right to press his Amendment, because they might soon be called upon to vote money for a different article than that they were now using.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House any Reports or Extracts from Reports made by our Military Attaches at Vienna and Berlin, relating to the quantity of ammunition used by the armies in Bohemia in the campaign of 1866, and especially of the number of rounds per gun' fired at the battle of Königrätz?
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Government to bring in a Bill this or nest Session to give effect to the Recommendations agreed to by the right hon. Gentleman and a majority of the Select Committee on Poor Rate Assessment—namely, that so much of any Public or Local Act as permits composition for Rates in other than Parliamentary Boroughs should be repealed, and that all Local Rates should be merged into one (Consolidated) Rate, to be assessed and collected together, so as to make the future Parliamentary Franchise for Boroughs dependent upon the payment of all or any Local Rate other than the Poor Rate, as is now the statutory qualification by the Reform Act of 1867?
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Government will undertake that the Report of the Select Committee on the House of Commons Arrangements shall be carefully considered during the Recess, so that provision according to the views of the Government may be made in the Estimates for next year?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that the question raised by the hon. Member was one of considerable importance; but he thought the Motion was based on a misapprehension as to the scale of diet recommended by the Commissioners who inquired last year into the question of the dietary in county gaols. They recommended four classes of diet, proportioned to terms of imprisonment, for those who were respectively imprisoned one week, one month, three months, and more than three months; and the reason was that those undergoing the longer terms of imprisonment evidently required the more generous diet, particularly if their imprisonment was accompanied with hard labour. The scale for one-week prisoners was precisely the same as the
 1023 1024
 MR. J. PEEL  said, that he was at the head of the firm which had signed the document of which the hon. Member for Southwark had so much complained. They knew very well that there was no tribunal in Egypt which could judge fairly between the buyer, being the Pasha, and the seller, the British merchant. He believed he was the oldest British merchant engaged in the Egyptian trade, and he had never heard of the decisions of the British Consular tribunal being called in question by any Native whatsoever. Any one who knew anything of the transactions between the British and the Pasha would gay that where justice was obtained it had been obtained by the Consular Courts, Though he would have no objection to see any system established which would do justice to other countries as well as our own, he would hesitate a long time before he would consent to have the transactions which passed between British merchants and the Pasha settled by an Egyptian tribunal,
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I have no wish, and I see no reason, to prolong this discussion, since there is no dispute as to facts, and I am bound to say that in by far the greater part of what has been stated by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard) I am inclined to agree. And first let me dispose of one or two questions which have been raised incidentally. As to the question of the right of foreigners to hold land in Turkey, and the conditions on which they should be allowed to hold it, I may remark that that is a matter which has been for some time under discussion, and I think we have practically settled the terms on which land may be held. I have always felt that in principle the Turkish Government were quite justified in the reservations and conditions they laid down; but Her Majesty's Government had to consider how those conditions would practically work in some parts of the Empire where Europeans are not numerous, and where Consular assistance is not at hand, I believe, however, that question has now been arranged between the two Governments. With regard to the abuse of Consular jurisdiction, I cordially sympathize in what has been said by the hon. Gentleman. It is an anomaly, even if it be a necessary one, that we should remove British subjects from the
 1050 1051 1052
 MR. M'LAREN  said that, in the present state of Public Business, and owing to the necessity of facilitating the registration for the purposes of the approaching General Election as much as possible, he should not, acting on the advice of a distinguished Member of his own side of the House, offer any opposition to the proposal.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the Bill ought to apply to Ireland as well as to England, and for the purpose of raising the question he begged to move that the words "or Dublin" be inserted after the word "Westminster." It was perfectly obvious that there should be the same law on the subject for England and Ireland.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he was desirous that the Bill would be made to apply to Scotland also. Election Petitions were very rare in that country, but he thought it would be well to provide for the contingency.
 MR. GOLDNEY  observed that the adoption of the Amendment would necessitate an alteration of the whole framework of the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he took the same view. If the Amendment were carried, it would be almost impossible to pass the Bill in the present Session, for it would have to be sent back to the draftsman to be re-cast. A better mode of proceeding would be to have separate short Bills for Scotland and Ireland.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had no objection to the principle of the Amendment, if Irish Members on both sides were satisfied that the fulfilment of those duties could be intrusted to Irish judges, who, he thought, would require no addition to their staff for the purpose. Supposing that they legislated for Ireland on this point, they must also legislate for Scotland, and he was of opinion that it would not be necessary to increase the number of the Scotch judges for the fulfilment of such duties. But he feared that in adopting the Amendment the Committee would be embarking on a sea of troubles, and would not be able to go on with the Bill as at present framed, and, therefore, if they legislated for Ireland and Scotland, they must do so, he apprehended, by separate measures. However, after the Bill as it stood was considered in Committee, it might be found possible to introduce a clause in respect to Ireland and Scotland, and the Government would consider that point.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to know distinctly whether, if the present Bill passed, the Government would introduce similar measures for Ireland and Scotland? If they did not, the result would be that as regards those countries the trial of Election Petitions would still be conducted by a tribunal which the House declared to be incompetent in reference to England. And yet the right hon. Gentleman (the First Minister of the Crown) might, perhaps, say in the end that the function of trying Election Petitions could not be entrusted to a single Irish judge, who might have been, before his elevation to the Bench, noted for being of a different party complexion from the man whose seat he had to decide on.
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, that the Irish Bench was composed of men who in many instances had been Members of that House, and had discharged their duties on Election Committees with impartiality, and was it to be supposed that on being made Judges they become incapable of properly discharging the same functions? On the contrary, hon. Members, when transferred to the Bench, lost their politics. Mr. Whiteside was a strong partizan when in that House, but, by the consent of all men in Ireland, he was declared to be a conscientious and impartial Judge.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he thought the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (the First Lord of the
 1003
 MR. MONSELL  said, the assumption was that this Bill would be a good measure as against corruption. Now, in some of the Irish boroughs corruption had prevailed to a very great extent. He desired the same legislation should extend to the whole kingdom. He did not want to impede the Bill. If the right hon. Gentleman would give a pledge that if this Bill passed for England he would introduce another Bill for Ireland and Scotland, he would be satisfied. He did not care how the thing was done; all he wanted was a distinct understanding that the same legislation should be applied to the three kingdoms.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he did not think this was dealing fairly and honourably by the right hon. Gentleman (the First Lord of the Treasury), who had distinctly stated what he should do. It was childish to go on as they were doing. The real object was to obstruct the Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did not wish to be misunderstood. He had not said he would proceed by separate legislation for Ireland and Scotland, but he did pledge himself to this—that when this Bill was carried through they might introduce some clause that might apply to Ireland and Scotland. So far he would pledge himself. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) said first that it was impossible to apply this legislation to Ireland; and, second, that he would never consent to this legislation for England unless it should be applied to Ireland. What was the inevitable inference from the two propositions but that the attempt to apply it to Ireland was a side-wind attack on the Bill itself?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he objected to the whole scheme of the rota. The Government in this clause seemed to lose sight of the fact that the object of the Bill was to meet two entirely different classes of cases. The first embraced Election Petitions that would result from the General Election, and the second the more casual Election Petitions arising during the continuance of Parliament. There was no real resemblance between those two classes of cases. The Petitions arising out of the General Election would all be presented and brought into the Court of Common Pleas on the same day or within a week. Of
 1004 1005
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he; failed to see any practical objection in the speech of the hon. and learned Member to the proposal that the Judges should elect three of their number to try Election Petitions. The word "rota" was well known to the Judges, because they attended by "rota" to try prisoners at the Old Bailey. The ''rota" for Election Petitions was ordinarily to' consist of three Judges, but in case of a, General Election power was to be given to appoint other Judges. When the hon. and learned Member proposed that all the Judges should be liable to discharge this particular duly, did he mean that they were all to have an increase of £500 per annum in their incomes? The hon. and learned Member could not have attended the Bar very lately, or he would scarcely have stated that all the Judges went the winter circuit. The fact was that but few of them went the circuit. Did the hon. Member seriously propose that Judge should "turn to" and try first a prisoner and then an Election Petition alternately? The idea was perfectly preposterous. The hon. Member had further said that the Bar went the winter circuit, but he must have forgotten that only the junior portion of the Bar, who were just beginning to learn their profession, went that circuit. He hoped that the words the hon. Member proposed to omit would be retained.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he was greatly surprised by the flippancy of the observations of the Solicitor General upon the speech of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). In his (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee's) opinion, the Judges to try these Petitions should be selected by ballot, and not by rota. As he understood, the selected Judges were to be on the rota for the whole year, or how would they get the extra £500? He had no objection to an increase in the
 1006
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he wished to point out an objection to the appointment by rota of the Judges to try the Election Petitions, which had apparently escaped the learned Solicitor General; which was that each of three Judges might have to try ten or twelve of these Petitions, instead of the whole of the Judges dividing the responsibility of deciding these crises among them. He thought they were running a risk of placing the Judges in a very invidious position. The greatest lawyer in the House had pointed out in a previous debate that one Judge might be more or less objected to than another, but here they were to have the same Judges over and over again. He wished to know why these three Judges should have £500 per annum more that the rest of the Judges for deciding a few of these cases once in every six years—because it was impossible to take the casual Petitions into consideration. Was the £500 intended as an equivalent for travelling expenses? He hoped that there would be some further explanation of the matter on the part of the Government.
 MR. MONK  said, it would be more satisfactory if instead of appointing a rota of three Judges the whole of the Judges were to take the trial of Election Petitions in turn. He wished to direct the attention of the Committee to the fact that the £500 a year which was to be paid to the Judges appointed for the purpose of trying Petitions was intended by way of extra salary and not in lieu of expenses, which, by another provision, were to be defrayed out
 1007
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, that the proposal to select Judges from a rota was in accordance with the plan adopted at the trial of criminals at the Old Bailey. In the course of three or four years all the Judges went through that work. They ought to trust the Judges and consult their convenience. He believed that the proposal made by the Government would be the most convenient for the Judges, for the Bar and also for the public.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would beg to remind the Committee that they were not now discussing the question of an additional £500 a year being given to the Judges appointed for the trial of these Petitions. The question before the Committee was as to the selection from a rota, and it would be better perhaps if the Committee adhered to the plan usually followed, and to discuss only that portion of the measure which was immediately under consideration.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he thought it would be better to permit the appointment of as many Puisne Judges as the pressure of Election Petitions might require, instead of determining at once on the selection of a certain number for a rota.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to remind the House that the Lord Chief Justice of England had written a letter to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government upon this subject. That letter contained the following passages:—
 "In conformity with your wishes, I have consulted the Judges, and I am charged by them, one and all, to convey to you their strong and unanimous feeling of insuperable repugnance to having these new and objectionable duties thrust upon them. We are unanimously of opinion that the inevitable consequence of putting Judges to try Election Petitions will be to lower and degrade the Judicial office, and to destroy, or, at all events, materially impair the confidence of the public in the thorough impartiality and inflexible integrity of the Judges when, in the course of their ordinary duties, political matters come incidentally before them.… I have only, in conclusion, to protest in the name of all the Judges and my own, most earnestly and emphatically, against the proposed scheme, as one which, besides being unconstitutional and unjust towards the Judges, is calculated to degrade the character of the Bench, to impair the confidence and esteem now happily entertained for the Judges, as well as their influence and utility, and most seriously to interfere with the administration of Justice." 1008
 MR. DISRAELI : I will observe only that the opinion referred to was expressed a considerable time ago, and that it is now generally admitted that time influences even unanimous opinions. That opinion was, moreover, expressed at a harsh period of the year, when people are not sanguine in their temperament. I have, therefore, every hope that her Majesty's Judges will now take a larger and more expansive view of the circumstances of the case and of their duties; and if the House will but agree to the Bill we have introduced, Her Majesty's Judges will, I have little doubt, carry out its provisions to the. utmost of their ability.
 MR. BOUVERIE : I must remark that the right hon. Gentleman has not answered my Question.
 MR. ALLEN  pointed out that practically the House was saying to every one of its Members, including the Attorney General and all Members of the Bar among them, that they were incompetent to try an Election Petition as long as they were Members of the House, but that as soon as any learned Member was raised to the Bench he immediately became endowed with superior ability.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, it must not be lost sight of that they were giving the Judges power to provide one of their number with an extra £500 a year. He presumed there would be some sort of canvassing among the Judges for the post, though he did not suppose they would issue election addresses. He could not, therefore, refrain from expressing a hope that the House would not hereafter hear of Election Petitions against the Judges themselves.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he thought the Committee ought to consider that the Government were placed in considerable difficulty in this matter, and that they deserved credit for touching this question at all. He looked upon the Bill ns an experiment, and, although he did not approve all its
 1009
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he thought that the question before the Committee should be decided before other matters were discussed.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Amendment divided itself into two parts. First, the Judges were to meet on receipt of a Petition, and arrange who should try it; secondly, the trial was to terminate within two months. The first point was practically decided on the last section, when the House decided there should be a rota; and as to the second, he had to say only that a proposal to legislate that a trial should be completed within two months had never before been entertained in any civilized country.
 LORD HENLEY  said, he preferred the Amendment of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton).
 MR. MONK  said, he understood the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets to intend, not that all the trials should be completed within two months, but that they should be commenced within that period.
 MR. AYRTON  said, his proposition was that they should fix a term for the commencement of the trial. If two months were too short they could alter the period, or insert the words—well known to the law—"within a reasonable time."
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to call attention to the way in which the section was framed. Its effect would be to put Election Petitions under the control of an Officer of the Crown. Any Secretary of State was to have power to regulate the trial of Election Petitions. In certain cases, if there was no interference by any such officer, the Petition could not be tried. If hon. Members accepted everything that was proposed to be put into the Bill because it was called a Bill for the Prevention of Corrupt Practices at Elections, they would deserve to be compared to those animals who swallow bait which, though smeared with something savoury, contains poison. In his opinion, the interposition of a Secretary of State was wholly unnecessary, and the natural course of proceedings would be to leave the matter in the hands of the Chief Justice, who could ask the members of his Court to make proper arrangements. He proposed as an Amendment to leave out the words "one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State," in order to insert the words "Chief Justice of the Court."
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he thought it would be better still that the matter should be left in the hands of the Judges on the
 1012
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the proviso in this section was a most unhappy one. It was proposed to enact that Judges should sit in the Superior Courts with the stigma of Parliament upon them, to the effect that they could not be trusted to do some of their duties. Anything more offensive to a Judge it was difficult to conceive. It seemed that they were to have two years of purification; but he (Mr. Ayrton) never before heard of any system of purification which extended over so long a period as two years. In converting a wretched Hindoo into a Brahmin it was only necessary that he should be steeped in jar of oil for nine days, and at the end of that period he came forth a Brahmin. Surely some shorter mode of purifying a Judge night be found; but, in his opinion, it would be better to leave out the latter part of the section altogether, and he therefore moved to omit the proviso.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had no objection to omit the words objected to.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the danger which it was intended to guard against was that of having partizans acting as Judges. A Gentleman who had taken part in the heated conflicts of that House might be transplanted to the Bench, and might, but for some such provision as this be at once engaged in trying Election Petitions. Whether he had to try the case of an opponent or that of a political friend the result was sure to be that there would be a charge of partiality brought against the Bench. The principle of the Bill was that such a man was to be distrusted as one of a Committee; but the moment he got upon the Bench he was to have full confidence placed in him.
 MR. ROEBUCK  suggested that the
 1013
 MR. AYRTON  said, they had now arrived at that part of the Bill which provided that the Petition should be tried not before the Judge, but by the Judge without the assistance of a jury. It was proposed that he should not only without the intervention of a jury determine questions of fact, but also decide questions of law affecting the scat of a Member, his capacity to sit in Parliament for seven years, and the qualifications of electors. This was an enormous power to give to a single Judge. If an act of corruption was to be tried, involving a comparatively small punishment, the question of fact must be decided by a jury; but where the act of bribery was to affect the validity of the Election and deprive a Member of his seat, the Judge alone was to determine it. In fact, the person tried for bribery—it might be in the same Court, if not at the same sitting—might be acquitted by the jury, so that there would be an absolute reversal of the decision of the Judge by the verdict of the jury. That was a very unfortunate position in which to place a Judge. Would it be competent in such a case to sue out a pardon from the Crown against the decision of a Judge in these circumstances? Looking at the penal consequences of a conviction under these petitions, it was necessary that the case should be tried, as in other criminal cases, by a jury. The consciences of twelve men afforded a better guarantee for impartiality than that of a single Judge did. If the Committee assented to the proposition that all matters of fact were to be tried by a jury, it would be easy enough to adopt a course which would secure a jury whose minds were unbiassed with reference to the matter under inquiry. He begged to move as an Amendment, to leave out all the words in the clause after the word "tried" in line 15, for the purpose of inserting the words
 1014
 MR. ROEBUCK  pointed out a more convenient method by which the questions before the Committee could be put, and concluded by observing that in the multitude of words there was not much wisdom.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, possibly the course proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) was a more convenient one than that which had been taken. Still the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets had a right to put his Amendment in the way he had done.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, it was utterly impossible that the scheme proposed by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) could be carried out practically. A jury might decide one or two issues of fact easily enough; but it was too much to expect them to come to a unanimous decision upon questions of the complicated character that were sure to arise at the trial of Election Petitions, where they would have to agree upon not one, but perhaps twenty issues of fact. The result would be that in every case the jury would have to be discharged without giving a verdict.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that these words would confine the trial on the spot to cases in which corrupt practices were charged; but he thought that in other cases—for instance, in the case of a scrutiny—there should be a local proceeding.
 MR. AYRTON  said, be would beg to move an Amendment binding the Judges in their procedure to respect the decisions and Judgments of the House. The inquiries of Election Committees were various in their character, and there was only one way by which proper relations between the House and the new tribunal could be preserved, and that was that the authority of the House should be fully recognized, and that the new tribunal should be guided in
 1015
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  objected to the Amendment, because he regarded it as unnecessary, and feared that it would be dangerous. Indeed, he looked upon it as the last effort on the part of the hon. I and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) to retain the jurisdiction in the House of Commons by making the House a kind of Court of Appeal to the tribunal they were now establishing. There was nothing in this Bill which gave the decision of the Judge any greater effect than the decision of an Election Committee; and, therefore, if any danger would exist after this Bill was passed, it had existed a long time. The Amendment served no good purpose, and could lead to nothing but ill.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the House had had control over Committees, but the Judges might treat the Orders and Resolutions of the House as waste paper. There had been a struggle for centuries between the House and the Bench, and now the House with their eyes open were going to part with their privileges. They were about to rush with haste into what those who came after them would repent at leisure. He would support the Amendment as calculated to mitigate the evils the Bill would entail.
 MR. STUART MILL  said, he had intended, before the clause was finally
 1016
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he hoped the House, out of regard for its own dignity and character, would reject that clause, which was without parallel in the history of their legislation. Surely, when the law had been declared by a tribunal over which the House was to have no control, it was not to be supposed that the House would break the law. It should be left entirely to the House itself to say what it should or should not enter on its own Journals.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  pointed out—as a precedent for that clause—that by the 86th section of the 11 & 12  Vict.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the latter portion of the clause cut two ways, and would be likely to do more harm than good. If, in the case of corrupt practices, all the inhabitants of the locality were to be fined by paying the expenses of a Commission, the result would be that everyone of them would be interested in preventing corrupt practices being proved. The real danger of the Bill already was that it tended to prevent the discovery of corrupt practices, and this provision would add another motive to those which already prevailed to induce persons to refrain from giving evidence. He hoped the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) would leave out that portion of the clause which threw the expenses of Commissions on the locality.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was the opinion of the Committee, which sat on the subject last year, that the object to be kept in view was rather the prevention of corrupt practices in the first instance than the disclosure of such practices when they had taken place. They thought that to throw the expenses of the inquiry upon the locality, where it was proved that corrupt practices had prevailed, would have the effect of preventing those corrupt practices being committed. It appeared, however, to him that the addition moved by the hon. Member would inflict injustice in certain cases.
 MR. LOWTHER  said, he thought the most effectual way of preventing corrupt practices was by charging the expense of the inquiry upon the locality.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he objected to the expense being thrown upon the whole of the inhabitants of a locality, as it would be making the innocent suffer with the guilty. He feared that such a provision would render it the interest of the inhabitants of a borough where bribery had prevailed to have no petition presented.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he was happy to be able, on the present occasion, to vote with the Government.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if the object was to prevent bribery, they had better not throw the expense of checking it on the offending locality, or they never would be able to discover the commission of corrupt practices, as people would band together in order to keep them from becoming known.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  asked whether it was necessary to carry the delusion further, that the respectable inhabitants of a borough knew nothing about the corruption which took place in their midst? In some boroughs it was necessary to settle the "difficulty" which arose with regard to the voters who objected to bribery and those who were in favour of it before a candidate could be chosen. He believed that the imposition of a fine on a borough for corruption would tend to lessen the evil.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  pointed out that the proposed Amendment would make the issue of a Commission imperative when a single case of bribery had been committed, although the Judge might be of opinion that bribery had not extensively prevailed. He thought it would be a hardship to the inhabitants of the county or borough to issue a Commission in cases where the Judge was of opinion there were only one or two cases of bribery.
 MR. AYRTON  observed that a Commission would issue under the clause as it stood only on the Address of both Houses of Parliament. He thought a Commission should issue unless the Judge should certify that no further acts of bribery had occurred beyond those he had already inquired into.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  reminded his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) that the Judge was, under a previous clause, bound to report in writing to the Speaker whether there was reason to believe that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed.
 MR. BOUVERIE  contended that it should be imperative to issue a Commission where corrupt practices had extensively prevailed; and therefore it was necessary to consider by whom the proceedings were to be carried out after the Judge had decided that corrupt practices had prevailed. He remembered a case which had come before an Election Committee, of which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) was Chairman. The Committee reporte
 1019
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If that is the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, he should say "No" to; the clause, and bring up a new clause himself.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought that the meaning of the words "extensive bribery" ought to be defined. Did they mean corruption to the extent of 5 or 10 per cent of the constituency?
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  maintained that on receipt of a Report from the Judge that bribery and corruption prevailed, a Commission should issue forthwith.
 MR. LOWTHER  said, he was surprised at the mistake into which the right hon. I Gentleman (Mr. Russell Gurney) had fallen when he said it would be the duty of the Judge to inquire whether corruption had been prevalent. All that would devolve on the Judge would be to take such evidence as would decide the question of the seat.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed that, in such a case at present, a Commission issued for the purpose of legislation, on the Address of the two Houses, to enable them to know whether the place should be disfranchised. A shorthand writer would attend the inquiry before the Judges, and his Report would be sent to the House, so that they would have the means of knowing everything that occurred.
 MR. AYRTON : By whom will the Address be moved?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would answer the hon. and learned Member by asking who moved the Address in the House of Lords at present?
 MR. AYRTON  said, they were not legislating for the House of Lords; they were legislating for the House of Commons, and it was sufficient for him to have to do with the House of Commons. At present, the Chairman of the Election Committees who made the Report was a Member of the House, and could be brought to the table, but it surely was not intended that the Judge should be ordered to attend at the Bur, and explain what took place on the inquiry. After the Judge sent the certificate with regard to the prevalence of corrupt practices to Mr. Speaker, upon whom would devolve the duty of moving the Address? Unless they knew who was to move
 1020
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that if the Amendment were carried a stop would be put to corrupt practices, as the inhabitants would exert themselves to prevent such practices being carried on.
 MR. STUART MILL  said, that as he had an important Amendment to propose, and there was not time for the discussion, he would beg to move that the Committee report Progress.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished for some more explicit understanding as to the moving of these Addresses. He should otherwise feel it necessary to raise the question again. Was the duty to fall on the Government, or would it devolve upon any hon. Member who chose to wade through the short-hand notes? Unless he had a distinct understanding on that point he should move the rejection of the clause with the view to bringing up a fresh one.
 MR. DISRAELI : If the right hon. Gentleman is desirous of preserving the privileges of this House, why does he grudge hon. Members the privilege of moving these Addresses?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  objected to the performance of the duty being left to the inclination of any private Member.
 MR. A. EGERTON  said, that in a case where so many nationalities were concerned it was clear that nothing could be done without reference to them. The noble Lord had held out a hope that foreign nations would be willing to appoint a Commission to settle this question, but it would be more satisfactory to the mercantile community if they were assured that steps were being taken to have the matter immediately referred to this International Commission.
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he had on the Paper for that evening a Motion for a Committee to inquire into the truth of the, charges he had made on Monday night against the above establishment. He had put that Motion on the Paper in consequence of the remarks made by the Secretary of State for War in answer to his speech. Since then he had had a consultation with the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, and found that his Motion was not strictly in Order. He was therefore obliged to withdraw it but he was anxious to have the truth of his statements investigated, and he would be happy to adopt any suggestion which the Secretary of State for War might make for that purpose.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that though the Question was addressed to the First Lord of the Treasury, it might be desirable, he apprehended, for him to give an answer. During the Recess Her Majesty's Government would give their most careful consideration, not only to the Report of the Committee over which the right hon. Gentleman presided, but also to the Report which he understood from the right hon. and gallant Member for
 1001
 MR. AYRTON  begged to enter his protest against Her Majesty's Government giving up British subjects to a Government which was utterly unconscious of purity of administration. [Mr. LAYARD: No!] The hon. Gentleman might say "No," but he maintained that the Government of Egypt was one into which corruption in every form entered. The idea of justice was foreign to such a Government, and to contemplate giving up British subjects in defiance of treaties to such a Power was most monstrous. If he could tell the House what was going on in Egypt, the hair of hon. Members would stand on end. [Mr. LAYARD: Oh!] Perhaps he had as authentic information and
 1054 sine quâ non
 MR. LEFROY  said, he shared the feeling entertained by the last speaker.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, if the subject to which I desire to draw the attention of the House were not one of very considerable importance, I should not have ventured to bring it forward at this late period of the Session. It is important because it concerns the interests of a large number of British subjects residing in the East, because it has a direct bearing upon the extensive commercial relations now existing between England and the Turkish Empire, and because it affects the character and reputation not only of this country, but of other European nations. The House may probably be aware that Nubar Pasha, the principal Minister of his Highness the Viceroy of Egypt, has recently visited England, in order to obtain from Her Majesty's Government some mo-
 1025 "That in all litigations occurring between the English or subjects of England, and any other person, the Judge shall not proceed to hear the cause without the presence of an interpreter or one of his deputies." "That if there happens any suit or difference or dispute among the English themselves, the decision thereof shall be left to their own Ambassador or Consul, according to their custom, without the Judge or other Governors, our slaves, intermeddling therein." "That if an Englishman or other subject of that nation shall be involved in any lawsuit, or other affair connected with law, the Judge shall not hear or decide thereon until the Ambassador, Consul, or interpreter shall be present; and all suits exceeding the value of 4,000 aspers shall be heard at the Sublime Porte." "In cases of manslaughter or other crime, the Governors shall not proceed in the cause until the Ambassador or Consul shall be present." 1026 1027 Vict. 1028 1029 "Ali Pasha attributes all the difficulties which fetter the commercial relations of Turkey and the action of the Ottoman Government to stipulations which are obsolete. He enters into details tending to establish that the privileges which Europeans have acquired by the capitulation are injurious to their own security and to the development of their transactions by limiting the interference of the local administration; that the jurisdiction by which foreign agents protect their countrymen constitutes a multiplicity of Governments within the Government, and, consequently, an insuperable obstacle to all improvements. Baron Bourqueney, and the other Plenipotentiaries with him, acknowledge that the capitulations apply to a situation to which the Treaty of Peace will necessarily tend to put an end, and that the privileges which they confer upon individuals circumscribe the authority of the Porte within limits to be regretted; that it is opportune to devise modifications calculated to bring all things into harmony… The Plenipotentiaries, then, unanimously recognize the necessity of revising the Capitulations, and decide upon recording in the Protocol their wish that a deliberation should be opened at Constantinople for the purpose after the conclusion of peace." 1030 "It shall be lawful for foreigners to possess landed property in my dominions, conforming themselves to the laws and police regulations, and bearing the same charges as the Native in-habitants, and after arrangements have been come to with foreign Powers." 1031 Actio sequitur forum rei, 1032 1033 "European vessels pay no port or anchorage dues in any provincial harbour of the Turkish Empire. At Constantinople, they pay, without reference to tonnage or length of sojourn, dues varying from one to two shillings per vessel, according to her flag. For example, the Great Eastern might he in the Golden Horn for a year, and her anchorage due would be twelve piastres, Twelve piastres, once representing as many dollars, now represent two shillings. In 1864 the Porte, at the instance of its Admiralty, proposed to improve the harbour accommodation on consideration of a graduated moderate scale of anchorage dues, and, in expectation of assent, suitable buoys with mooring chains were brought from England. The European Legations declined the proposition.… The English have made their harbour master out of a servant in search of a place, out of a shipchandler in difficulties, out of a hydropathic doctor in want of patients, but never out of a sailor." 1034 "The Turkish captains were restrained from exercising the right of keeping clear water around them—exercised by men-of-war in every part of the world, exercised afterwards freely by the allied fleets in Beikos Bay—by fear of misrepresentation. The naval reader will exclaim indignantly, 'Why did not Hassan Bey or Ali Bey weigh Captain Tomkins or Captain Lefevre's anchor, and let him drift to the devil, if he pleased?' I will tell him why. Captain Tomkins or Captain Lefevre would have made a report to his Consul, who would have forwarded it with elucidatory remarks to his Ambassador, who in his turn would have sent a dragoman to the Porte with a demand for pecuniary compensation to Captain Tomkins or to Captain Lefevre for the anxiety and ill-usage he had suffered by his own statement, and a request for the dismissal of Hassan Bey or Ali Bey from his ship for over-zeal." 1035 1036 1037 1038 The Times "To illustrate the confusion fomented, it is pointed out that there is scarcely a single department of the national Administration free from interference. Even a murderer, if he be a foreigner, cannot be arrested by the police unless they be accompanied by a Consular delegate; while every minor police regulation—such as the control of drivers of public vehicles, &c.—is sot at naught; because, if a foreigner, the man knows he can appeal to his Consul, and if a Native he complains of the immunity allowed to his alien competitor. So with questions of ordinary taxation. Each Native trader is required to pay a licence duty; the foreigner refuses, and thus one is weighted against the other, and the worst animosities of race are created. In the same way all the most important industries of the country are impeded. For the welfare and development of commerce and agriculture a sound mortgage law is essential. No such law is possible in Egypt. If a fellah giants a mortgage to a European, he knows that in case of any question the decision will be made by the Consul of his creditor, and this not according to any uniform practice, but according to the mortgage law of the nation to which the creditor may happen to belong. Hence the agriculturist is driven to the Native moneylender, and usury becomes inevitable. Similar considerations influence the Viceroy in guarding against any steps that might tend to throw land into the hands of Europeans. …. The crowning evil still remains. In Egypt, as in all other Eastern countries, rulers and people are alike ignorant of the true principles of trade and finance. Hence the Viceroy becomes the prey of specious adventurers, and these adventurers, relying on their nationality, constantly lead him into the most injurious commitments, and then trust to the threats of their Consul either to enforce fulfilment or to obtain preposterous indemnities. Such cases can always be reserved as political weapons, and, of course, those Powers contrive to obtain the most whose representatives are the least scrupulous." 1039 "A Consulate-General of Brazil exists, although there is no Brazilian settled in Egypt. The Consul General, an Italian, has been obliged, in order to constitute for himself a nation, to take all the members of his family under the protection of his flag. His nephew, Abd-Allah-el-Athem, an attaché to the Consulate, became bankrupt. The disputes arising out of this bankruptcy have been adjudicated against the will of the creditors by the uncle of the bankrupt, who has overruled all exceptions to the bankrupt's transactions. The refusals of justice on the part of the Consul General of Greece have been so flagrant that one day, in full session of the French tribunal, on appeal in action brought by a Greek against a Frenchman, the president, M. Tricou, sent for the plaintiff and addressed him, verbatim, in these words—' Your suit is struck off the list. Go and tell your Consul that when he shall render justice to Frenchmen, I will myself render justice to his countrymen.'" 1040 1041 1042 The Times "The Government of the Viceroy has submitted to Her Majesty's Government a proposition to abolish the jurisdiction of the British Consular Law Courts in Egypt." The Times 1043 "By a formal demand addressed to the British Consular Court, that the Viceroy, having failed to meet his engagements, should be immediately declared a bankrupt. A private intimation that this formal demand had been made for a declaration of bankruptcy was communicated to the Viceroy's agent, and he thereupon sent to the office of the holder of the bills the money to meet them." 1044 1045 1046 "Her Majesty's Government cannot doubt that the system which now prevails in Egypt in regard to suits in which foreigners on the one hand and the Government and people of Egypt on the other, are concerned, is as injurious to the interests of all parties as it is certainly without warrant of any treaty engagement. Her Majesty's Government are perfectly willing, therefore, to lend their aid to the Egyptian Government in an attempt to establish a better system, and if the Egyptian Government succeed in obtaining the concurrence of other Powers for the same purpose, you may assure Nubar Pasha that the cordial co-operation of Great Britain will not be withheld from so salutary a work. They would hail with the utmost satisfaction such an improvement in the judicial system of the Ottoman Empire, and specifically of Egypt, which is so important a part of it, as would justify them in altogether renouncing any judicial action in that country, and leaving the disputes of their subjects, and the crimes which they may commit, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the local Government, as is the case in other countries. With such feelings, Her Majesty's Government are certainly not inclined to hold out for a jurisdiction to which they have no treaty right, which they submit to be an usurpation, though brought about by force of circumstances, and which is as injurious to British interests as it is derogatory
 1047 The Times "The necessity of framing capitulations is the 16th century for the protection of a few European trailers was a disgrace to Turkey; the strict enforcement of them in the 19th century is a reproach to Europe. They were framed on behalf of limited associations, self-restrained by bye-laws, and self-responsible for the conduct of their servants and  employés; per fas et nefas, 1048
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to make an appeal to the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) with regard to the peculiar position of the discussion which that hon. Gentleman had originated. The hon. Member had had an opportunity of placing his views on that subject before the House, and also of eliciting the views entertained by hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House in opposition to his own; and as it was understood that the hon. Member did not wish to go to a division, it did not seem as if they were likely to make much progress with the question in hand; while it should be remembered that they had a heavy Paper of Business still before them, and that the period of the Session was advanced. He would suggest, therefore, that, in order to facilitate the course of Public Business, the hon. Member for Brighton should withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that the hon. Member for Youghal (Sir Joseph M'Kenna) should also withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, after the discussion in this House, and considering the state of public feeling on this subject, it is unnecessary for me to expatiate on the services of Sir Robert Napier. Great and distinguished as those services in Abyssinia have been, they are only portions of a career in which for a long period of years he has proved his loyalty to his Sovereign and his devotion to his country. I have the satisfaction of informing the House that Her Majesty has been pleased to confer the high distinction of a peerage upon Sir Robert Napier, by the style and title of Lord Napier of Magdala; and it is with a view to sustain the honour of that great distinction that Her Majesty has now appealed to the House of Commons to assist her in the consummation she wishes. It is a part of the admirable combination of forces in our constitutional system that the Sovereign and the nation unite necessarily when there is a complete recognition of public services; and if the Committee will pass the Resolution which I am about to move, we shall prove that in this country those who render such services may depend upon a gracious Sovereign and a grateful people. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by proposing—
 "That the annual sum of Two Thousand Pounds be granted to Her Majesty out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, to be settled upon Lieutenant General Sir Robert Napier, G.C.B., and the next surviving Heir Male of his Body, for the term of their natural lives."
 MR. SYNAN  said, he sincerely regretted that he could not support either the Motion of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) nor the Amendment of the hon. Member for Youghal (Sir Joseph M'Kenna). While he was willing to give both his hon. Friends full credit for the best intentions, he did not think that either of their propositions was a solution of the University question in Ireland. He differed from each of his hon. Friends, however, for very different and almost opposite reasons. He could not agree with the application of the endowments of Trinity College proposed by the hon. Member for Brighton; and he could not accept the proposition of the hon. Member for Youghal, that those endow, merits should be left as they are. After what had lately taken place in that House he did not think his hon. Friend could be so over sanguine or so deficient in political sagacity as to hope that Parliament would ever endow a separate University for Roman Catholics to the same extent as Trinity College, or to any extent at all. He therefore looked upon that proposition of his hon. Friend as an oratorical flourish at the eve of an election. To refuse, therefore, to deal with the enormous endowments of Trinity College for national University education in Ireland is to deprive the Roman Catholics of that country of all endowments for that purpose from
 1061 1062 Cui bono, 1063 1064
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  in reply, said, that he was scarcely in a position, so recently after the Committee had made their Report, to give any intimation as to what the intentions of the Government might be on that subject. For himself
 1000
 MR. FAWCETT  expressed his readiness to accede to the request made to him by the Prime Minister.
 MR. FAWCETT,  in rising to move a Resolution on this subject, said, that he had to apologize to the House for bringing forward so important a subject at so late an hour; but when an independent Member had been counted out by the tactics of his own party, hon. Members would agree with him that the fault was not his. When he brought forward the Motion last year to place Catholics and Presbyterians on an equality with members of the Established Church with respect to education, it fell to the lot of Mr. Speaker to decide its fate, and in giving his decision the right hon. Gentleman said that the principle of the Motion was so important that the House ought to have another opportunity of expressing an opinion upon it. Since that
 1055 1056 Westminster Gazette, "This liberalism is as contagious as scarlet fever. If the Catholic laity continue to send their I sons to these places, where they receive a mixed '' education, in fifty years time where will be the friends of an exclusive system of Catholic education?" 1057 1058
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to point out that it was the weakness of the Egyptian Government, after the revolt of Ali Pasha, which led to the granting of the existing concessions to foreigners. He hoped the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs would not treat this question as an Egyptian one merely, but would go to the root of the evil, and endeavour to carry out all the recommendations contained in the Protocol of Paris. At the time when the capitulations were entered into there was in Turkey a poll tax on Christians, and one object was to exempt foreign residents from this badge of servitude. Circumstances had wholly changed, and it was absurd that foreigners should be exempted from every impost except customs' clues. Foreign residents ought to be placed on an equal, but on no better footing, than Natives, and there was no reason whatever why they should not be required to pay their fair share of taxation. There could be no question that the Consular jurisdiction had given rise to great abuses on the part of the Consuls of third-rate Powers, and so reluctant were people to interfere that murder might be committed in Turkey by foreigners almost with impunity. Indeed he could mention
 1049
 MR. O'BEIRNE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BLAKE  rose to call attention to the deficiency of Workhouse dietaries in Ireland, and to move That, in the opinion of this House, the Poor Law Commissioners of Ireland should establish a minimum scale of dietary for the Paupers in the Union Workhouses not less than that now in existence in the Irish County Gaols, and which was recommended by the Commission appointed to report on the County
 1021 1022
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he wished to warn the noble Lord not to be led astray by the extraordinary statements which had proceeded from some of our countrymen in Egypt. He could readily understand that our countrymen there were so accustomed to special privileges that they were very unwilling to part with them. Egypt was now becoming so intimately bound to this country, and especially to Lancashire, by commercial relations, that he hoped the noble Lord would not allow that state of things with regard to our Consular Courts
 1053
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he would be the last person to interfere with the convenience of the House; but he wished to express his regret that, after the statement of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett), he and others on that side who held views contrary to those of that hon. Gentleman, and views, more-
 1065
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  wished to say that, in consequence of what passed the other evening, he had communicated with the officers of the War Office, and with Colonel Campbell, the head of the Royal Gun Factory, at Woolwich, who were affected by the statements of the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield (Major Anson). Those officers were all gentlemen of as high station, honour, and character as that hon. and gallant Member himself, and they felt very much hurt by the statements which the hon. and gallant Member had made, casting serious imputations upon them; and they all desired that there should be some inquiry into the subject. The hon. and gallant Member would admit that it was due to those officers that his statements should be investigated or withdrawn; and under those circumstances the best course would, he thought, be that the hon. and gallant Member should draw up the charges which he was prepared to make against the Royal Gun Factory at Woolwich, and then they would be in a position to refer them to a Select Committee of the House for investigation. He (Sir John Pakington) would suggest that the Committee of Inquiry should consist of only five Members, to be
 1066 de die in diem,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON,  in reply, said, that he had made inquiries in the Department that morning with the view of answering the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, and he found that they had no statements of that nature which he could lay on the table with any confidence in their possessing official authority. The subject was, indeed, mentioned by the military correspondents in some of their letters, but he was told there were no documents in the Office which could be presented to the House as affording authoritative information which they could rely upon.
 SIR JOSEPH M'KENNA,  on rising to move the Amendment of which he had given Notice, said, he should not have taken exception to the question raised by the hon. Member, had it not appeared to him that the Motion, if accepted generally by Irish Catholic Members, was calculated to mislead the judgment of the House in respect to the real requirements of the Catholic people of Ireland in the matter of University education. He would state shortly what those requirements were. They might be all summed up in one proposition—namely, that there should be established in Ireland with the sanction and under the protection of the State an University as free from the interference; of the State as the University of Dublin now was, and with equally satisfactory protection for the religious faith of its Catholic students as that now enjoyed by Trinity College for the protection of its Protestant students. He maintained that nothing short of this proposition would or ought to satisfy the Catholics of Ireland, and he regarded it as important that the House should not be led to believe that the liberality of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) in opening up Trinity College and admitting Catholics to its honours and emoluments would or ought
 1059 1060
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, the great object he had in view in rising was to show the House various deficiencies and defects in several ships built by the present Controller. He would divide the subject into three heads:—First, an example of want of classification; secondly, improper and unscientific distribution of weight in certain vessels; thirdly, defects in fighting qualities, for attack and defence, of  Invincible 1108 Inconstant Vidette. Inconstant Vidette Inconstant's Vidette's Inconstant's Achilles "The results of the calculations on the  Vidette Inconstant Vidette 1109 Inconstant Vidette Inconstant's Inconstant Achilles "Here, again, we have the  Achilles Achilles Bellerophon, Lord Warden Lord Clyde Achilles Bellerophon Achilles Bellerophon 1110 Monitors. incubus Minotaur Invincible 1111 "A shot may come in at the top of the armour on one side, and go right through and strike the armour on the opposite side; and we have every reason to believe, from experiments made, that it would drive the armour-plate off and might destroy the ship." Invincible
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has received a Letter dated the 21st of November, 1867, from Mr. Hale, the Inventor of the War Rockets adopted in Her Majesty's service, in which, among certain other charges, he accuses the Superintendent of the Royal Laboratory at Woolwich of having made alterations in the Rockets, which render them less efficient and more costly; and requesting the right hon. Gentleman to give him (Mr. Hale) an opportunity of substantiating these charges in the presence of the Superintendent of the Royal Laboratory; and, whether any
 1107
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he would read the gallant Admiral's words—
 "There is, no doubt, a thorough sea-going turret-ship, say 12 feet, or 14 feet, out of the water." Captain Miantonomah bonâ fide 1136 "It may, indeed, be quite open to doubt whether it is wise at the present time to commence building two more turret-ships when there are two so near completion, and which will be so soon on their trial." "All things considered, I am clearly of opinion that the two turret-ships.  Captain Monarch, Cambridge, "With regard to what I think of turret-ships, and whether it would be advisable to build two turret in lieu of two broadside-ships during this year, I think it would be extreme folly to do so until such time as the  Captain Monarch, Prince Albert, 1137 Excellent, "All things considered with regard to sea-going iron-clads, ships armed properly on the broadside principle are most decidedly to be preferred to turret-ships."
Captain King Hall, Superintendent at Sheerness Dockyard, said— "I take the liberty of writing frankly to you, because I deem it a public duty, and seriously trust that no pressure of irresponsible opinion will tempt the Board of Admiralty to order other sea-going turret-ships to be built until the  Monarch Captain Achilles, "I think the Admiralty quite right in not substituting two turret-ships for the broadside ones i in the building programme, until the  Captain Monarch, Royal Sovereign, 1138 Invincible "I have always been most anxious to give a fair trial to turret-ships at sea (and I made a long speech on the subject in 1865), and nothing I could do since I have been in Office have I neglected to expedite the trial which will come off in the case of the  Captain Monarch. Captain Monarch,
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he thought that at this period of the debate it would be well that he should state the views which Government held on the subject of the proposal which had emanated from the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely), and also give some answer, as far as he was able, to the various objections which had been raised against the policy of the present and preceding Boards of Admiralty, and also against the classes of ships which they had built. He had to thank the hon. Member for Cashel (Mr. O'Beirne) for giving him an opportunity of explaining a matter connected with the printed Papers. The hon. and gallant Officer (Captain Mackinnon) had used epithets which he believed the sailors of the navy would be the first to discountenance and regret, considering that the charge of wilful suppression rested on the First Lord, on himself, and his hon. and gallant Colleagues. If it had not been for the hon. Member for Cashel he would have passed by in silence the uncourteous attack that had been made upon the Department to which he had the honour of belonging. The original Return of the Report of Admiral Warden was numbered 128, and ordered on the 5th of March. It was supposed to contain and did contain the despatch of the gallant Admiral, the remarks of the Controller of the Navy, Admiral Warden's abstract with diagrams of trials alluded to in the Report of December 3rd. The Return took some time in printing, in consequence of the unusual pressure on the Parliamentary printers. It was not till the 4th of May that it was printed and delivered, and then in an incomplete form. The first document was omitted, but the Report on it and the abstract were printed. There could be nothing wilful in the suppression of the despatch, for the Controller of the Navy in his Report gave nearly the whole sub-stance of it to the House. Four days after, on the 8th of May, Admiral Robinson the Controller of the Navy, finding the Paper had been printed and delivered in an incomplete state, came over to the Ad-
 1128 "This Report of Admiral Warden was accidentally omitted from Return No. 128, and should be added to it. H. G. L." Bellerophon Bellerophon Bellerophon 1129 Bellerophon 1130 Bellerophon Hercules, Minotaur Achilles, Vixen, 1131 Viper, Ocean, Research, Pallas, Research, Pallas Pallas Research Bellerophon 1132 Amazon Bellerophon Bellerophons Bellerophon Hercules Hercules Bellerophon, "That a Committee of scientific men be appointed to take into consideration the lending characteristics that should be adopted in the future construction of the Vessels of the Navy." 1133 Captain, Monarch, "The estimated speed of the  Royal Oak Royal Alfred Caledonia Ocean Prince Consent Zealous Bellerophon Lord Clyde Lord Warden Pallas Viper Vixen Penelope 1134 1135
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that the ship to which the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) had referred as having been sold at a very low price had been so sold because of the prevalence of a disease aboard some time before the sale. The hon. Member had asked why the Admiralty did not sell more of their old ships and get good prices for
 1145
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he was anxious to assure the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Alderman Lusk) that nothing was further from his wish than to appear to answer the Questions which were put to him in a flippant manner, but the fact was that, finding the discussion rather dull, he had endeavoured to promote the hilarity of the evening. What he wished, however,
 1147
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that the latter proposal of the hon. Member would involve a large expense, as it would be necessary to engage men to break up the ships, and their labour would be just as expensive as if they were building ships instead of pulling them to pieces. In the only instance in which the plan of public tender had been tried the ships had been sold for far less then the price they usually realized.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he had no reason to complain of the remarks made by the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. Samuda) in introducing his Amendment. Although misinformed on some of the points which he had mentioned, it was natural that the hon. Gentleman should try to press upon the Committee the adoption of his favourite system of the turret. The hon. Member said that in the first copy of the Estimates laid on the table there was n turret-ship to take the place of the  Monarch. Monarch Triumph. Monarch Prince Consort Warrior, reported 1153
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that was true, and it was also true that she sailed nearly as well as the  Ocean; 1154
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, the increase was due to the greater degree of publicity which they wished to be given, in order that there might be a larger competition.
 MR. COWPER  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has received a Chemical Report on the results of trials of processes for the in-duration of decaying stone in the walls of the Palace of Westminster, and whether he will communicate such trial to the House?
 MR. LIDDELL : I rise to Order. Is it usual, Sir, to comment in this House on the proceedings of a Select Committee before that Committee has reported?
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he must beg, as a Member of the Select Committee, to express views quite in opposition to those of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren). It would appear from the remarks of the hon. Member that his impression from what occurred before the Committee was, that the Board of Admiralty was a Department absolutely unfitted to be entrusted with responsibility. [Mr. M'LAREN: Not quite so far as that.] The impression made upon his (Mr. Liddell's) mind by the inquiry of the Committee was that they had in the office of the Controller of the Navy a most conscientious man, thoroughly capable of performing the duties of that position, as alive as any naval reformer in that House to the require-
 1126 1127
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he thought the difficulties under which the Admiralty laboured in the sale of old ships and the criticisms they underwent for selling those ships too cheaply, and buying in the old copper, &c., in them at an unduly high rate, arose from the restrictions imposed by Parliament in the Naval Stores Act, and he should like to know whether the Government intended to seek a repeal of that Act?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, no other step would or could be taken in the matter. The usual notices would be served in the ordinary way, and a Bill would be introduced early next Session with reference to the subject.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, no chemical report on the results of trials of processes for the induration of decaying stone in the walls of the Palace of Westminster has yet been received. When it is received it will be communicated to the House.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that the Question of the hon. Gentleman; seemed to be based on a misapprehension. There was no plan before the House of the First Commissioner. The Treasury Commission appointed to inquire into the Concentration of the Public Departments had considered the subject, and presented a Report, and to that the signature of the First Commissioner had been appended. The Report was the Report of the Commission. Notices would be given to the holders of property for carrying out the plan so far as adopted.
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it is the case that the decision of Lord Canning, with respect to the will of the Raja of Kupurthulla, has been reversed by the Governor General, and that six months only, dating from the 1st of May, have been allowed to His Highness for the purpose of appealing; and, if so, whether he has any objection to extend that period to one year?
 MR. HAYTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether his omission to give any reply to the Motion respecting the placing in store of Ammunition now carried by the Noncommissioned Officers and Privates of the Army is to be interpreted as an acquiescence in the propriety of adopting such return to the original practice in the Army; and, if not, whether he is prepared to accept the responsibility of offering facilities to men, when either insane or intoxicated, for committing outrages in barracks similar to those which have already been attended with fatal results on several previous occasions?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that on Friday an opportunity would be given, according to the forms of the House, for bringing the subject under consideration. The hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had left the House on the clear understanding that his Motion on the subject was to come on on Friday. It would be for the public convenience that this Vote should be taken to-night. He therefore hoped the hon. Alderman would allow the Vote to be taken.
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not propose, Sir, to take any Estimates to-morrow morning; but that we should meet at two o'clock to go on with the Election Petitions and Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill. To-morrow evening I propose we should take a Military Estimate, which, I trust, will not lead to much discussion, and afterwards the Civil Service Estimates. Perhaps I may be allowed to say with reference to the Foreign Cattle Market Bill that I said, in answer to a Question
 1157
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that at this moment letters were despatched every Saturday by New York across America to San Francisco, and from San Francisco by an American packet to Portland in Oregon, and so to Victoria and New Westminster. Up to last year the authorities in Vancouver's Island had made their own arrangements, but the result was a complete failure. They got into debt and were unable to continue the subsidy. Since then Her Majesty's Government had been attempting to make some arrangement for establishing communication between San Francisco and Victoria. The negotiations were now going on, and would, he had no doubt, terminate satisfactorily. The Correspondence between 1859 and 1867 would be absolutely use less, as it related to an arrangement which had fallen to the ground, and the colony itself had changed its condition; while it would be inconvenient to produce the subsequent Correspondence, because it was incomplete at present, and because it involved the part which the United States Government were taking in the negotiations. This country could not undertake the communication by subsidy. He assured the House that the matter was receiving the most careful consideration, and he hoped it would soon be satisfactorily settled.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that the despatch referred to by the hon. Member was dated 1866, in which the Governor of New Zealand (Sir George Grey) described certain conduct of the troops towards the Natives in 1864. By reference to that despatch it appeared that it referred to a certain local force—Rangers—who set fire to a village, the Natives being at the time in arms and firing on the troops. The Governor at the time passed no censure on them, although two years later he described their acts as acts of cruelty. The Secretary of State had expressed general approbation of the conduct of the troops. Under these circumstances, and considering that four years had elapsed, he did not think there was any good cause for further inquiry into the case.
 MR. SEELY  asked, whether the Admiralty did not ask for a vessel having her guns 12 feet above the water; not 12 feet of freeboard?
 MR. SEELY , in rising to move That a Scientific Inquiry be instituted to take into consideration the leading characteristics that should be adopted in the future Construction of the Vessels of the Navy, said he did not ask the House to pronounce an opinion upon this question, but merely that they should inquire into the subject. During the last few years a great controversy had been going on with respect to the principles upon which our vessels should be constructed. It was an indisputable fact that £3,500,000 had been spent during the last five years on broadside iron-clads, and about £500,000 on turret-ships; and more was still to be spent, although the Admiralty by asking private builders to furnish designs for broadside-ships, admitted that it was still a doubtful question on what principle ships of war should be constructed. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War (Sir John Pakington) in his
 1112 Invincible 1113 "In the  Bellerophon, Pallas, "The efficiency or intrinsic worth of an ironclad intended for the ocean or for coast purposes is to be estimated according to her strength throughout every part of her hull, &c." Invincible 1114 Research, Enterprise, Research, Research Pallas, Bellerophon, Achilles Bellerophon Amazon 1115 Achilles, Achilles Achilles Minotaur, Vixen, Viper, Waterwitch. Vixen, 1116 Monitor 1117 1118
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to call attention to an increase of £300 for advertisements in connection with this Vote. He thought the matter required explanation.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the Admiralty seemed always in the position of the mole underground, blind to what was passing around them. They built one class of ships after another that were immediately found not to be wanted. They ought not, in his opinion, to be intrusted with this irresponsible power. Remarkable circumstances had been brought out by the Committee now sitting, of which he had the honour to be a member. It appeared that ships built at an expense of £150,000 had in a few years been sold for £10,000. A condition of sale was that the copper sheathing and copper bolts and iron should be brought back to the Admiralty, and purchased at a price which was often found to be very much larger than the whole amount produced by the sale of the ship, so that they actually made a present of the ship to the purchaser and gave him a sum of money besides. He (Mr. M'Laren) had asked one of the witnesses before the Committee respecting a ship thus sold at Bermuda, and obtained an answer to the effect that it would have been more profitable, commercially speaking, to have burnt the ship on the beach, for the metals would have remained, and cost nothing; though as there were no tides at Bermuda, this might have been a difficult operation. And though all other establishments in the world could keep their stores from being stolen, it appeared that the Admiralty could not. It was asked if the Admiralty did not pay about £22,000 a year for police watching the dockyards, which was admitted; but still they were afraid of the thieves.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, under those circumstances, he would content himself with saying that all he had heard showed that the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) did a very wise thing to move for this Inquiry. He should cordially support the hon. Member's Motion.
 MR. AKROYD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Why the survey of the direct route from Rangoon to Kianhung, on the South Western frontier of China, has not been completed, and on what grounds the preference has been given 10 the survey of the route by Bhamo to Talifu (Assam and Calcutta) in the North West of China?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, it was the intention of the Government to appoint a Commission to inquire into the public health, and he thought this subject, to which his hon. Friend had called attention, might very well form part of the inquiry.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the whole of Class II. would be taken, and also a Supplementary Estimate, which would be laid on the table to-night.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that having listened for some time to the statement of the noble Viscount he was really at a loss to understand the object he had in view. He could readily understand that as the noble Viscount was interested in the prosperity of Vancouver's Island he might feel it to be a matter of regret that the colony should not enjoy postal communication with this country. But that was not the only colony which had to forego that advantage. It was only the other evening that it was stated that the important colony of Penang had been deprived of such communication. He hoped the day might not be very far distant when direct postal communication might be established, but it must be somewhat remote, as the expenditure would probably be not less than £10,000 a year in addition to what was already paid, and the correspondence with Vancouver's Island was diminishing in amount. He believed the whole difficulty arose from this, that the colony of Vancouver's Island was unable or unwilling to pay the money that would be necessary to keep up a postal communication with San Francisco, but was no doubt very desirous that the Imperial Government should be at that expense. Any of Her Majesty's vessels that might happen to stop at the colony might carry the mails, but that was an act of grace; there was no obligation on them to do so. If direct communication with this country were the object, it must be effected by means of the Russian steamers from the Isthmus of Panama; that would involve very serious expense, and he was not aware of any intention of incurring it at present. It was for the colony to make arrangements for a line of vessels between itself and San Francisco; and if that were done the communication might be suffi-
 1142
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was sure the House would feel that no apology was needed from the noble Lord for any want of efficiency on his part in supplying the
 1139 1140 Captain Monarch Captain Monarch,
 MR. CHILDERS  said, as this Vote contained a charge of £12,500 for carrying out the Contagious Diseases Act in arsenals and garrison towns, the operation of which had been very beneficial both to the army and navy, he wished to ask, whether, during the coming Recess, the Government would be willing to appoint a Commission to inquire into the working of the Act, with the view of extending it to other parts of the kingdom?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that it might be as well to take the Vote now, provided the present proceeding was not to be made a precedent. He would like to ask the Government what was the Business that would be taken to-morrow?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that what Mr. Cobden had said was perfectly true, that there should be buyers and sellers who would deal with these matters in the ordinary commercial way of business. It by no moans followed that the system of public tender was the best. Generally it was, but not always.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, that the turret principle had a large number of scientific men in its favour, and a complete series of vessels, forming a turret navy, by Admiral Halsted, were now exhibited at South Kensington Museum. These might supersede the system of building broadside-ships; but he thought that both the broadside and the turret-ships were at present simply experimental. If the hon. Member for Tavistock would limit his Motion so as to stay all further expenditure, until experiments had shown the relative value of turret-ships and broadsides, he would support him.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, inquiry had been attended with the most beneficial results in other Departments, and there was reason to believe that in that of naval construction its results would be equally satisfactory. He thought the hands of the Admiralty would be strengthened rather than
 1124
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he hoped the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty would not resist the Motion of his hon. Friend, which was conceived in no spirit of hostility to the Board of Admiralty. The Board could not be supposed to be possessed of all knowledge as to the best principles of construction for our ships-of-war. There might be outside the Admiralty much ability and scientific knowledge, which a country like England ought to avail itself of.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that in reference to an observation of the hon. Member for Finsbury, to the effect that the East India Company used to sell their old ships at better prices than those now obtained by the Admiralty, he wished to remind the Committee that the ships of that Company had been built for commercial purposes, Ships bought from the Admiralty would have to undergo very considerable alterations to adapt them to commercial purposes, and it was well known that the sailing and managing the vessels as commercial ships which had not been built as such was more expensive than sailing and managing under ordinary circumstances. It was an undoubted fact that in one case, where the vessel was sold for £2,000, the Admiralty re-purchased the old copper for £4,000. He thought, however, that it would be as well to postpone any searching inquiry into this subject until the Report upon it was published.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the noble Viscount must confine himself to asking a Question.
 MR. SPEAKER : If a Committee has not reported it is out of Order to comment
 1125
 MR. FLOYER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, Whether, in pursuance of the intimation given in the last Animal Report of the Poor Law Board, it is intended to issue any further regulations for the administration of relief to Vagrants?
 MR. LAIRD  said, that the question was whether they were to continue building broadside-ships, or go on with the construction of turret-vessels. He had long since come to the conclusion that it was a mistake to build broadside-ships, and his opinion was more than verified by the Reports of Admiral Warden and Admiral Yelverton in reference to the Channel Fleet. Turret-ships had proved successful as sea-going vessels, and as the Admiralty possessed sufficient means for judging which was the best turret-ship to build, he saw no utility in the appointment of a Royal Commission of Inquiry, which might take a long time to arrive at a decision. He would rather that the House should pronounce a decided opinion that the construction of broadside-ships, which had proved to be of no value whatever in a gale of wind, should be abandoned for the purpose of providing the country with some turret-ships.
 MR. LAIRD  said, the  Zealous,
 MR. LAIRD  said that, having been personally referred to in that discussion, he wished to make a very few remarks. It had been alleged that there were no sea-going turret-ships now afloat. That was not correct. He knew of one seagoing turret-ship of 3,716 tons which went to South America, and encountered very bad weather in rounding Cape Horn, in which she showed great sea-going qualities.
 1151 "To have opened all the main deck ports, judging by the effect of opening only five, would have been to have washed the men away from the guns, and consequently they (the guns) would have taken charge of the deck by getting adrift, but with what consequences it would be utterly impossible to predict. The most of the cartridges, if not all of them, would have been destroyed in the guns, and the guns which could have been got off would have hurt nobody." Prins Hendrik "I went to sea at 11 a.m. on the 2nd of December, blowing hard from the N.W., with heavy squalls of hail, which nearly prevented me going through the passage Dufour out, from Brest. When outside I found myself on a lee shore, with a furious storm from the N.W., and a tremendous sea, enough to frighten an old sailor. The  Prins Hendrik Prins Hendrik 1152
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he rose to draw attention to the circumstances under which the sanction of the Committee to the building of two vessels of the  Audacious Triumph Swiftsure, 1149 1150 Audacious New Monarch.
 MR. SAMUDA  seconded the Motion. He thought that the question ought to be made the subject of a scientific inquiry. He wished to guard against it being supposed that he desired in any way to obstruct the proceedings of the Admiralty, or to find fault with the course they had: adopted; but it appeared to him that this great subject was one of the highest national importance, and ought to be regarded from a point of view far beyond that which was likely to be taken of it within the precincts of a mere Department of the State. When a great policy had been inaugurated, he could well understand that a Department of the State might efficiently carry it out; but it was unlikely that such a policy could be initiated by a Government Department. The State, by appointing a Commission of Inquiry, could obtain the assistance of men of the greatest ability, experience, and knowledge in the kingdom, who would freely give evidence upon the; question about to be inquired into; whereas if the inquiry were placed in the hands of a Department, it would be sure to languish, because if the highest authority upon the question were converted into an official, he would soon become unfitted for taking a broad view of it. It was clear that little or no progress had been made with regard to this question of armour-clad vessels since it had first come before the Admiralty, and therefore it was of great importance that fresh minds and fresh modes of thought should be brought to bear upon the subject. He regretted the absence of the First Lord of the Admiralty on this occasion; but he would remind the noble Lord (Lord Henry Lennox), who would probably reply, that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Corry), when Secretary to the Admiralty in 1846, attempted to develop the screw fleet, he found the greatest difficulty in carrying out his plans in consequence of
 1119 1120
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, the Poor Law Board made considerable inquiries and collected a good deal of information as to the state of vagrancy; and he hoped before long, as the result of those inquiries, the Poor Law-Board would be enabled to issue an Order providing uniformity with regard to the diet, lodging, and work of vagrants.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he feared that when selling their old ships the Admiralty proceeded on false principles, and that the result was a very serious loss to the country. From a pamphlet which had been published in reference to these matters it would appear that the Admiralty did not ask for tenders from all the world for those ships, but invited one, two, or three persons to send in tenders for the purchase. It did so happen, too, that the ships were sold for a third or fourth of the sum at which they had been valued by our own valuers. One particular ship would appear in the Estimates as having been purchased for £34,000, but it would be a very great mistake to suppose that the buyer had really handed that sum to the Admiralty. In accordance with the custom, he sold the stores of the ship back to the Admiralty, so that he had to pay them only about£13,000 or £14.000, the ship having been valued at £70,000 or £80,000 by our own valuer. It was alleged—he did not say so—that there was an understanding between the authorities at the Admiralty and those who were invited to send in tenders for the purchase of ships. The Admiralty were discharging workmen from the dockyards. Why did they not employ those men in breaking up the old ships? If they adopted this plan they could keep the stores and merely sell the timbers.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, that the House was very much indebted to the noble Viscount for having brought so important a subject before it as the correspondence between British Columbia and this country. The noble Lord had stated that he was informed by a publication from the Post Office that if he wished to send a letter to British Columbia, put it into the Post Office, and paid a certain sum, it would arrive at a certain time, and, in like manner, that an answer would be received at a given time. But it appeared from the statement of the noble Lord that there was no security whatever that the promise thus given to the public would be kept. Something like a deception was practised by the authorities in this country, in stating through the  Postal Directory 1143
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he must draw attention to the fact that the noble Lord had not answered the Question he had put to him concerning the sale of old ships by public tender, instead of by the present system of one or two firms only tendering for the vessels. If they could not get a proper price for the vessels they should break them up themselves.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to draw attention to the cost of coaling vessels-of-war. The cost of coals put on board Her Majesty's ships at Spithead was from 28 s s s 1146
 MR. GRAVES  said, that if the Vote were pressed, and if the House were to build two vessels, he must vote against two turret-ships on a design which had been condemned by the Admiralty. With reference to the sponson-ships proposed to be built, they were a great experiment, but he did not think it would be successful. The Admiralty possessed all the information they required, and all they had to do was to apply it. It was professional and practical rather than scientific and theoretical knowledge that was wanted, and there was too much science and theory. The question was, whether the Committee would suspend the Vote altogether, or whether the Government would test the opinion of the Committee as to two turret-ships or two sponson-vessels. He would support the Motion if it were confined to staying any further expenditure on experimental ships which, judging by the past, would prove failures. He believed there was great merit in Admiral Halsted's designs.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he rose to call attention to the defective development of steam in the case of some of the vessels of
 1155 Bellerophon Invincible Audacious
 MR. GRAVES  said, he had intended to propose a reduction of the Vote by £500, with the view of closing the Deptford and Woolwich Dockyards; but, in the absence of the First Lord of the Admiralty, he would not raise the question. He was glad to hear that the Deptford yard would be closed, and hoped that Woolwich also would shortly be given up.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he thought the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) was to be congratulated on having secured so favourable an opportunity for a Motion of so much importance. No doubt this question might have been considered when the Vote to which it had reference came before them, but he must remark that the result of the course advocated by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down would probably have been to prevent this discussion coming on before midnight. He regretted that the hon. Member for Lincoln had not stated whether the Inquiry which he advocated was to take the place of the Estimates which were to be voted that night, or whether it was to be instituted after those Estimates had been passed. With regard to the Motion itself, no one admitted more thoroughly than he did the existence of the defects in the navy to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded. But he had always believed that the Admiralty lacked practical rather than scientific knowledge. He feared, therefore, that the Inquiry recommended by the hon. Gentleman would have the effect, if limited to a "Scientific Inquiry," of making confusion worse confounded; because the Admiralty could not but regard the appointment of a Commission for that purpose as evincing a want of confidence in its own Constructive Department. The result, he feared, would be seriously to weaken a responsibility which rather required strengthening. Now, from time to time, Motions were made for the purpose of showing that the expenditure of our public money did not lead to results which were satisfactory. The vessel which had been so prominently alluded to, the  Bellerophon, 1122 Hercules Bellerophon. Monarch, Invincible Monarchs, Plovers, Invincibles Captain, Captain Invincible 1123 Penclope,
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether notices will be served on the owners; of houses between Bridge Street and Montagu House, in order that no time may be lost in case the plan of Sir Charles Trevelyan for the future arrangement of the Public Departments should be preferred to that of the First Commissioner?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to know, Whether anything would be done in the matter beyond serving the notices?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he wished for some explanation of the sale of ships at less prices than were afterwards given by the Government for the old stores taken from the same ships. One ship was sold by Government for £2,600, and the purchaser received from Government for old materials £3,477. Old ships ought to be sold not privately but publicly to the highest bidder. Sales of vessels by the East India authorities had been made on better terms than the Government obtained.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that last year much more money was asked for on account of this Vote than had been expended. He wished to know why that was, and what had become of the excess?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, with reference to his previous remarks in regard to the sale of old ships, he knew, not of one, but twenty instances like that he had referred to, in which ships had been sold far beneath their apparent value. He regretted that the noble Lord should have thought it consistent with his duty to tell him that he had better go to his constituents and ask them to buy those old ships. His constituents knew how intelligently to do their own business, which was more than the Admiralty seemingly did. He recollected having been told on one occasion, when he had complained of more anchors being asked for, when there were sufficient in store to supply the Navy for twenty-five years, that they required seasoning. He hoped the present Admiralty were not, seeing they were expending large sums for Dantzic deals, going to lay up sufficient for twenty-five years.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  asked that the Vote might not be brought on that night, as it was not put down in the Order for the Day, and he knew several Members who were interested in this Vote, but who were absent.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he wished to inquire if the Government intended to go on with Class II. to-morrow evening?
 MR. DU CANE  said, he would beg to state in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Graves), that the present system of coaling vessels-of-war by means of pontoons was only temporary. They were in hopes that an arrangement might be made with the railway companies for the transit of coal between Portland and the Welsh coast. But as it would involve a considerable outlay to adopt the proposal of the hon. Member, they thought it better to wait until another year before asking for the sum necessary to carry out any improvement upon the present system.
 MR. DU CANE  said, he could only answer that it had not yet been paid into the Exchequer.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he must deprecate the practice of bringing forward desultory Motions—he did not mean to include the present under that title—on going into Supply, when those Motions could be as well and more advantageously discussed in Committee, without delaying the progress of Business and protracting the Session. The present Motion, for instance, would naturally enough have arisen when Vote 10 came to be taken. Since he bad entered that House the Naval Estimates had been doubled, the Army Estimates trebled, and the Civil Service Estimates quadrupled, and the House could get no satisfaction on the subject beyond general statements. When so much yet remained to be done, he thought hon. Members might well restrict themselves to Motions which could not be made in Committee, in order that the House might have an opportunity of getting to the real Business before it. The result of the present
 1121
 MR. GORST  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, with reference to the following passage in a despatch of the Governor of New Zealand, laid before Parliament on the 5th May, 1868:—
 "I have heard no allegation of other acts of cruelty in New Zealand, except in the case of the attack made on the native mission village of Rangiaohia by the European Forces under General Cameron one Sunday morning (the 21st February, 1864). I heard with sorrow those reports; but, for the reasons I have before stated, I could not tell whether they were true or not," &c. 1104
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had to apologize to the hon. Member for not giving an Answer on Monday night last, when the subject was brought before the House by him, pursuant to Notice; but his (Sir John Pakington's) attention had been engrossed by the Motion and speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Lich-field (Major Anson). He could by no means accept the sort of argument by which the hon. Member concluded his question. Had he answered the hon. Gentleman's Question the other evening he could only have repeated what he had before stated—namely, that he should be throwing great discredit and a slur upon the whole British Army, were he to be induced, in consequence of one or two isolated acts of violence, to deprive the whole of the non-commissioned officers and privates of the ammunition with which they had hitherto been entrusted.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, the War Office had received a Letter from Mr. Hale, dated the 21st of November, 1867, which corresponded generally with the first part of the Question of the hon. Member, but which contained no request for an opportunity to be afforded him for substantiating the charges he had made against the Superintendent of the Royal Laboratory at Woolwich. What Mr. Hale said in the letter was that if he (Sir John Pakington) thought proper to call upon him, to substantiate his allegations, he was quite willing to do so. Mr. Hale had received the sum of £8,000 as compensation, and upon condition that the Crown should possess all rights over his invention; and in consideration of that payment, the Officer at the head of the Laboratory at Woolwich conceived he had a right to make such improvements in these rockets as would render them more serviceable. He (Sir John Pakington) had not heard that those alterations had rendered the rockets more costly and less efficient, and he did not believe it.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, he had received no direct communication from the Governor General of India on the subject; but he saw in the Report of the proceedings that a decision was come to by the Governor General on the 8th February last in respect to the will in question, and that the present Raja had been called upon to give effect to the will of his father. In consequence some communications had taken place between the Raja and the Governor General in April last, when the latter stated that he would allow the decision to be suspended for a period of six months from the 1st of May in order to enable the Raja to carry his appeal to England. No such appeal had as yet arrived. If there should not be time to consider it within the period named, which he (Sir Stafford Northcote) thought very possible, he would take care to have the time extended so as to afford
 1105
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that the grounds upon which the survey of the route between Rangoon and Kianhung had been suspended were stated in the Papers already presented to the House. The survey had been carried on as far as the limits of the British territory; but upon the representation of the Governor General of India that it might involve political complications if it were carried through the independent States, he (Sir Stafford Northcote) had issued an Order directing the survey to be suspended. In regard to the survey of the route by way of Bhamo to Talifu, that had nothing to do with the survey of Rangoon. It was authorized by the Governor General without asking the permission of the Secretary of State; because, as he (Sir Stafford Northcote) imagined, there were no similar political difficulties to be apprehended.
 VISCOUNT ROYSTON (CONTROLLER OF THE HOUSEHOLD)   reported
 VISCOUNT MILTON  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, What direct means of Postal or other Communication exist between this Country and the above Colonies? Although the  Postal Directory 1141 Sutlej Zealous,
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that this Vote had gone unchallenged since he had the honour of a scat in that House. In this country it was part of our creed that public matters should be discussed in the light of day. Open doors and full newspaper reports were advocated as necessary to political health, and he could not understand why there should be a Vote of this kind. He had been informed that part of the money asked was not for the purest objects, and unless the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury could assure him that none of this money went for base and corrupt political purposes, he should move that the Vote be reduced by £10,000.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  agreed that the Committee ought to know what was done with this secret service money. It might, for all they knew, be employed for base purposes, as in the payment of informers and spies. If they were told what the secret service money was wanted for they would vote it freely.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, it was obvious that no detailed explanation could be given of the destination of secret service money. It had been the practice of the House for many years to entrust the Government with the distribution of this sum, no part of which went in "base or political purposes." Almost the whole of the amount was disbursed by the Foreign Office, and none of it went to the Treasury.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he hoped that the explanation would be satisfactory to the worthy Alderman (Mr. Alderman Lusk).
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, it was hardly so explicit and to the purpose as he could have wished; but, under the circumstances, he would not press his objection.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, there was an understanding that the expenses of the Fisheries Commission should not be increased, and he therefore regretted to see an addition of five persons connected with the Commission.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, there was an increase of £5,600 in this Vote. There was now no need for some of the Inspectors, as the Act under which several were appointed in Scotland had been done away with.
 MR. NEATE  said, he could not understand how the travelling expenses of the Inspectors were always the same fixed sum. Was it done by contract?
 GENERAL DUNNE  wished to know when the present system would cease?
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he thought the fees to surgeons in the Factory Department, which had increased from £1,550 to £2,000, ought to be paid by the factory owners themselves, and not by the Government. The salaries of the Local Government Act Office had increased by £1,000. He thought that fees to cover the expenses of this Office ought to be charged to those towns which employed its agency.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, there, had been a considerable increase in the number of Inspectors of late years, and if the House passed Acts which required Inspectors to carry them out, they must not be surprised if this Vote showed an increase. The Fisheries Commission was
 1203
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  asked for an explanation of the increased number of clerks employed, and the large augmentation of this Vote year after year.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  stated that the arranging of a large accumulation of papers in the Library had necessitated a temporary increase.
 MR. NEATE  wished to know who were employed in making the translations, which were often very slovenly and incorrect?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought there was mystification in these accounts. Items were bandied about from one Department to another, and it was impossible to detect where the items of the net increase were to be found.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he thought the hon. and gallant Gentleman should not object to the introduction of a better classification. He presumed that all the clerks in the Foreign Office were acquainted with modern languages, and were therefore intrusted with translations.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he objected, not to an improved classification, but to constant alterations.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  remarked that the expenses of this Department were continually increasing. He thought that some of those Inspectors who were considered necessary to be employed to look after different branches of trade should be paid by those for whose benefit they were appointed.
 MR. CHILDERS , with reference to an increase in the number of temporary clerks
 1204
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  thought that, instead of employing sixty temporary clerks, persons who had been superseded and pensioned for reasons difficult to understand might be utilized. He was surprised that more notice had not been taken of the large number of able-bodied officials of the Board of Trade, who had been pensioned off at large retiring allowances, to make room for new appointments.
 MR. READ  remarked that the expense of these statistics had increased by £4,500. In 1866 the sum was £10,000 for two Returns; whereas it was now £14,500: last year it was £18,000, and only one Return was collected.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Read) was mistaken, there being a decrease and not an increase of £4,500. He believed these statistics would prove of very great value as the system became better organized, and the prejudices of the agriculturists disappeared.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  stated, in answer to the remarks of his hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Childers), that supplementary clerks were extinct as a class, there being only a few left, and no others being appointed. The temporary clerks were exactly the class whose employment his hon. Friend had suggested, they being taken on when wanted on weekly wages, and discharged when the occasion for their services ceased. This was a better plan than the employment of law stationers' clerks, who were often of a class which rendered it undesirable that they should mix with the other clerks. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) had noticed the increasing expenses of the Board; but he must be aware that the increase had been caused by various Votes of the House, imposing upon the Board many duties which they were by no means anxious to undertake, and this accounted for the augmented number of junior clerks. Inspection of gas companies had been thrown on the Board of Trade, and next year his hon.
 1205 1206
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he agreed with his hon. Friend that the number of horses in the country would be an extremely valuable addition to the Returns; but as the Returns were entirely voluntary, they must wait for a short time before they could ask people to make any addition to them.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  wished to know in what part of the United Kingdom the foreshores were situated which were alluded to in the blue book? Where they in Scotland or in the South of England?
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he could not answer the question. Applications were constantly being made to the Board of Trade to arrange disputes with regard to foreshores in various parts of the kingdom.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he thought the answer of the right hon. Gentleman, with regard to agricultural statistics, was satisfactory. He hoped the experiment would be persevered in.
 COLONEL FRENCH  bore his testimony to the admirable manner in which the present Lord Lieutenant of Ireland discharged the duties of his Office, and expressed his belief that an addition should be made to
 1207
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the Committee should not contemplate anything so distressing as the retirement of Lord Abercorn from his present Office; and he; thought that the hon., and gallant Gentleman had proved that it was not in the interest of the Government to increase the salary of the Lord Lieutenant.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, the hon. Member had never succeeded in reducing any Vote, often as he had attempted to do so. This question had been so often discussed that it was not worth while to debate it now. He felt surprised at finding an Alderman of the City of London, the Corporation of which had always been so strongly supported in that House by the Irish party, opposing a grant of that description. It should be remembered that a much larger sum was contributed from the Civil List to racing purposes in this country. In London when a mob levelled the Park railings they were replaced at the public expense, and it was hard to object to an item of this kind affecting Ireland. The hon. Member ought not to break the contract between the Irish Members and the Liberal party on so trifling a Vote.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he wished to know on what principle the Plates were
 1208
 GENERAL DUNNE  also thought the Plates should be more fairly divided.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that the races and the conditions under which they were run were regulated by Her Majesty's Master of the Horse, who was quite ready to attend to any suggestion. The conditions under which the Queen's Plates were to be run for in future had been altered recently, with the view of promoting improvement in the breed of horses. He was sure that the representations of those who were most interested would be readily attended to; but he believed the general opinion was that the running for the Plates was most useful at the Curragh, because more horses were trained there than anywhere else. The hon. Member for Fins-bury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) had referred to facts which everybody must deplore; but the Irish turf was entirely free from the scandals alluded to.
 COLONEL SYKES  wished to know what were the duties of the Gentlemen-at-Large?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, a Viceroy must have a Household, and it could hardly be said that the Lord Lieutenant was over-supplied with attendants.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he would this Session withdraw his Motion.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  asked why the property connected with metropolitan improvements made under the direction of this Department had not been sold, and the accounts completed?
 MR. WALDEGRAVE- LESLIE  observed that during the time the First Commissioner of Works had been in Office no Royal Arms were allowed to be put on the metropolitan or provincial branches of the
 1209
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  complained that all the charges were not inserted in the account, and asked for an explanation. He also called attention to the fact that the road through Kensington Palace Gardens to Bayswater was closed to public cabs, notwithstanding that to a great extent it was maintained out of the public funds.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the accounts furnished to the Treasury by the Office of Woods were net accounts, after making certain deductions. They were accounts such as would be furnished by an owner of an estate, after making various allowances. The Woods and Forests had no option in the matter of the road referred to; but he would make inquiries on the subject.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  thought that the closing of the road against the public was a very questionable proceeding.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, this subject had been discussed, and the Vote had met with the approval of the House.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, there were only three or four more Votes to complete the Estimates for the year, and they ought to finish the Supply tonight.
 MR. DISRAELI  reminded the House they had only sat since nine o'clock. Time was now very valuable, and he wished to get through Supply tonight that they might proceed on Thursday morning with the Corrupt Practices Bill.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  observed that there was likely to be a discussion on a postponed Army Vote.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the Government were ready to take the discussion that night. If it did not come on now, it must take precedence of the Corrupt Practices Bill on Thursday.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he had postponed the Army Vote in order that a Paper which he had presented might be printed. The Paper was not yet in the hands of Members; but he hoped the House would be content to pass the Vote.
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, that they had been waiting for months for this particular Paper, and without it they could not determine whether the Report of the Select Committee or the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman in respect to a certain scheme of retirement should he considered.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the hon. and gallant Member laboured under a complete misapprehension. The House had never waited for the Paper, which he only mentioned a few days ago. The Paper contained no scheme of any reform, nor had he any scheme to propose.
 COLONEL JERVIS  stated that for months the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) refrained from pressing this question because it was clearly understood that the War Office had a scheme to propose.
 MR. CHILDERS  observed that the right hon. Baronet had on two occasions stated that he was preparing a scheme, and he, in consequence, asked for the production of the Paper in connection with it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had never made any promise to produce any scheme. The Report to be produced was simply that of the actuaries on the scheme of the Committee.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had no intention to charge his right hon. Friend
 1212
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he trusted they would be allowed to pass the two additional Votes on the Paper, and thus facilitate Business.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the sum collected in local subscriptions had been expended in providing medicines and sustenance for the sufferers during the time they were incapacitated for work, and in the case of those permanently injured towards providing them with pensions to insure them against dependence on parochial relief. In some cases, also, it had been applied in the purchase of tools to workmen where their tools had been destroyed. Certain furniture also had been provided out of the fund. The voluntary efforts of that Committee bad been of great assistance to the sufferers, and the benevolent persons engaged were deserving of every commendation for their admirable exertions. The Committee had represented to the Government that they were entirely unable to give compensation to those whose property had been destroyed. Some of the parties had been advised that they had a remedy against the Hundred as in the case of a riot; but that had been tried, and it was decided that the diabolical proceeding was not in the nature of a riot, but an attempt to rescue from prison a prisoner who had committed an offence against the State. Under these circumstances it was thought the Government ought to make some compensation to those who had suffered by the destruction of their property. They had therefore sent a proper person to make inquiry, and, although they had not yet got a detailed Report, it was believed the sum now taken would be sufficient for the purpose.
 MR. NEATE  said, he thought the Treasury occupied a most unenviable position in allowing that to be done by private individuals which ought to have been done by the State.
 MR. WYLD  eulogized the charitable and public-spirited efforts made by the Prime Minister at the time of the explosion to assuage the sufferings of those who were wounded by the explosion, and men-
 1213
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  also thanked the Government and the House for the generous manner in which they had rendered aid to some of his constituents who were innocent victims of this deplorable and wicked piece of madness.
 MR. DISRAELI  expressed a hope that they should he able to dispose of this Vote on Thursday, as well as of the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  stated, in reply, that the process in Scotland termed "running his letters," was one by which a criminal could have his trial removed from the provinces to Edinburgh. The expense was about £2 10 s
 MR. J. STUART MILL : The addition which I propose to this clause is one of great importance, since it raises the question of providing better security against corrupt practices in municipal, as well as Parliamentary elections. No one is likely to deny that bribery in municipal elections deserves repression as much, and is as unfit to be tolerated or indulged, as bribery in Parliamentary elections; and the special reason why it should be dealt with in this Bill is that, as we are told by all who know anything about the matter, municipal bribery is the great school of Parliamentary bribery. Hon. Members of this House have on a former occasion testified to this fact from their personal knowledge, and I shall quote only two authorities for it. One is that eminent Conservative solicitor,
 1167 "My strong opinion is, that all the efforts which are now being made to check bribery at Parliamentary elections will fail, for this reason, that you do not attempt to strike at the root of the offence. The real nursery for the evil is the municipal contests; and those oft-recurring contests have led to the establishment of what I might almost term an organized system of corruption in the municipal boroughs throughout the kingdom, which provides a machinery ready made to hand, available when the Parliamentary contest arrives." "That it has been proved to the satisfaction of your Committee, that an intimate connection exists between bribery at municipal and Parliamentary elections, and it is expedient that the provisions as to punishments and forfeitures for the offences of bribery at each such election should be assimilated as far as possible." 1168 "And it shall be competent for any such Commission to inquire into corrupt practices at previous municipal Elections within the county or borough as fully as into corrupt practices at previous Parliamentary Elections."
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the Amendment of the hon. Member was not sufficiently relevant to the Bill to enable it to be inserted in the Bill in the absence of a direct Instruction of the House to the Committee on the subject. The Amendment had reference to municipal elections, and the Bill referred only to the elections of Members of Parliament.
 MR. TREEBY  submitted, that if bribery at municipal elections tended to corruption at Parliamentary elections, the Amendment was relative.
 MR. BOUVERIE  observed, that, under this clause the whole practice would be changed. The Judge, and not the Committee, would have to inquire into the seat, and the alleged corrupt practices at the election. The Judge, and not the Committee, would hear the evidence. The Judge, and not the Committee, would report to the House whether extensive corruption had or had not prevailed among the constituency. Hitherto it had devolved on the Chairman of the Committee to bring the matter on the Report before the House; but on whom would that duty devolve under the new system? On the Government? They had already enough to do. Was it, then, to be left haphazard to any private Member on either side of the House who might read the shorthand writer's notes, but who had neither seen the witnesses nor heard their evidence? That would be a most lame and impotent conclusion, more likely to encourage party feeling and give latitude to corrupt practices than the present system. The arrangement proposed would lead to nothing being done. What he suggested was that the issue of the Commission should depend on the finding of the Judge, and not on any Address being moved. He was prepared to move the insertion of words in this clause, making the issuing of the Commission obligatory whenever the Judge stated in his Report that he had reason to believe that corrupt practices had prevailed at an election.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  observed that he had so altered his Amendment as to obviate the difficulty started by the Chairman. He proposed it should run thus—
 "And it shall be competent for any such Commission to inquire how far corrupt practices at any previous municipal Election may have conduced to corrupt practices at the Parliamentary Election."
 THE CHAIRMAN  felt bound to say that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Westminster, even as it now stood, extended beyond the  bonâ fide
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he would avail himself of that suggestion.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  supported the proposal of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) and hoped he would frame a clause such as he had described.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought that the clause as it stood was very important and valuable in itself, and that, therefore, the Committee would not wish to get rid of it altogether. It proposed to enact that when the judge should report that corrupt practices extensively prevailed in a county or borough the House should he placed in exactly the same position as it was at present when a Committee made a Report to a similar effect. The Amendment to be proposed by the hon. Member for Westminster would, if substituted for this clause, deprive the House of the discretionary power it had hitherto exercised upon the Report of a Committee being made to it alleging the existence of extensive corrupt practices in a county or borough. It was the more necessary that this discretionary power should be left to the House, seeing that the present Bill made the ratepayers liable for the expenses of the Commission. He therefore hoped that the clause would be allowed to stand.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he was afraid that the Judges who were appointed to try these Petitions would be placed in a very awkward and unpleasant position by this Bill; they would first be requested to make a Report as to whether or not corrupt practices extensively prevailed in a borough or county, and when they had made that Report they were to be told that they were not to be believed, and
 1170
 MR. NEATE  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Member who had just spoken that the clause should either be struck out or considerably amended. He was of opinion that a Judge should not be called on to say extra judicially "that he had reason to believe" that bribery extensively prevailed.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he did not think the House could compel the Crown to issue a Commission in these cases. The best plan would be to pass the clause and discuss the question in a separate form. He trusted that the Committee would be allowed to make some, progress with the Bill.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had endeavoured to discuss the provisions of the Bill with a view to rendering it more efficient. No one, he thought, could accuse him of trying in any way to retard its passing. ["Oh!"] He thought that the course now being adopted would render corruption more easy, instead of more difficult; but, finding the Committee against him, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. BOUVERIE  wished to know whether a Member was to be tapped on the shoulder and served with an Election Petition in the same way that a man was now served with a writ?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had never understood that tapping on the shoulder was a necessary accompaniment to the serving of a writ.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he objected to the construction of the clause, which would throw a monopoly of the shorthand writing into the hands of Messrs. Gurney, who already enjoyed the monopoly of the shorthand writing of the House of Commons. Without in the slightest degree wishing to impugn the skill of those gentlemen and their staff he thought that the shorthand writing business arising out of these Inquiries should be thrown open to the shorthand writing profession generally. He suggested that the shorthand writer to attend these Inquiries should be appointed either by the Judge or by the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 MR. NEATE  said, he would move the Amendment of which Notice had been: given by the hon. Member for Hereford (Mr. Clive), to leave out—
 "On the trial of an Election Petition under this Act, the shorthand writer of the House of Commons, or his deputy, shall attend, and shall be sworn by the judge faithfully and truly to take down the evidence given at the trial, &c." and insert— "On the trial of an Election Petition under this Act, a shorthand writer shall be appointed by the judge (in the manner hereinafter provided), to attend, and shall be sworn by the judge faithfully and truly to take down the evidence given at the trial, &c."
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he should support the clause as it stood, seeing that if they were to interfere in this way with every small matter in the Bill they had better at once proceed to construct a Bill themselves, and to treat the initiatory action of the Government as amounting to nothing. The shorthand writing of the House of Commons as performed by Messrs. Gurney was incomparably well done. He had never seen any operation of the human mind combined with that of the hand that appeared to him so wonderful as the precision with which the proceedings in the Committees of that House, where the utmost confusion frequently prevailed, were taken down and read off fluently by the shorthand writer. If the Government were to announce that this Bill was merely of a temporary character the greater part of these discussions would at once fall to the ground.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  observed that his object was merely to permit the direct employment of those who now did the work.
 MR. DISRAELI : With the permission of the Committee I will take this opportu-
 1172
 MR. MAGUIRE  observed that perhaps this would be the proper time for him to move a proviso, to which he believed the Government would not object. As the Bill stood Parliamentary agents would not be entitled to appear professionally in Election cases before the Judges. The object of his proviso was to provide that agents or counsel now entitled to practise in the House of Commons in respect of election matters, should be entitled to practise before the Judges in respect of similar matters.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would make some additions to the hon. Member's proviso, and bring it up as a new clause.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he was about to propose the insertion of words which would throw the expenses of the Court held by the Judge upon the locality whose misconduct had been the cause of the outlay. He apprehended that the object of the House of Commons was to educate public opinion to bear against electoral corruption. With that view he thought it would be well to make the existence of such corruption in any community inconvenient to that community. The presence of a Judge for a short time in a borough was not looked upon as either a disgrace or an inconvenience to that borough. On several occasions the House had seen the anxiety displayed by communities to have their particular locality selected as the assize town. There were festivities of various kinds—including the "Assize Ball "—during the visit of a Judge to a county town. Perhaps next year they should hear of "the Bribery Ball." The House as much as possible ought to avoid giving the smallest ground for the supposition that the visit of the Judge to try a case under this Bill was to be an occasion of merrymaking. He had taken the words
 1173
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that no one would go further than he was ready to go in punishing a constituency found guilty of corrupt practices; but the House must take care not to press that principle too far. In their anxiety to suppress corruption they must not do what was unjust. The intention was that a Judge should proceed to the particular borough in order to try whether there had been corrupt practices there or not. Now, the Judge might arrive at the conclusion that the charges were unfounded, and yet not be prepared to hold that they were frivolous and vexatious. There was a great difference between those two findings. Again, the charge of an undue return might be sustained in consequence of five or ten persons in a borough having taken bribes. The general rule was that the country provided the expenses of judicial investigations.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that nothing could be so well contrived as the clause to prevent the presentation of Election Petitions, for which the utmost freedom ought to be allowed; and he moved the omission of the words—
 "Subject, as aforesaid, a substituted Petitioner shall stand in the same position as nearly as may be, and be subject to the same liabilities as the original Petitioner."
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed that it was only where the Judge was of
 1174
 MR. WHITBREAD  explained that the Committee intended by this clause to prevent the withdrawal of  bonâ fide
 MR. LOWE  observed that the sureties were required by the clause to guarantee that the prosecution of the Petition should be effective, and not merely that the expenses should be paid.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the object of the clause was to prevent the Petition being withdrawn from corrupt motives.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  thought that the Petition should not be allowed to be withdrawn under any circumstances.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he could not see how the Judge was to ascertain whether the withdrawal of the Petition was owing to corrupt motives. If he endeavoured to cross-examine the Petitioner the latter might refuse to answer on the ground that he declined to criminate himself, or else one or two witnesses might be brought forward who had no evidence to give, and it might be said that the case had broken down, as in either of these cases the Judge would be helpless.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the object of the clause was to prevent Petitions being withdrawn in pursuance of corrupt arrangements. The hon. and learned Baronet who had just spoken had shown how it was possible for the ends of justice to be defeated, and the present clause only endeavoured to meet a certain number of the contrivances that might be adopted with that view. A former clause provided for this difficulty, because under it the Judges were enabled from time to time to prescribe rules under which Petitions might be withdrawn. He did not mean to say that there could be no evasions of the Act; but if they desired to prevent the corrupt withdrawal of Peti-
 1175
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he was of opinion that the only remedy would be found in the appointment of a public prosecutor.
 MR. BOUVERIE  called attention to the fact that there were no means by which the House could be officially informed of the steps taken from time to time affecting seats, and consequently a Member whose seat had been declared vacant might still take part in these proceedings, and vote in important divisions.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  remarked that the means of information were just as great as they were at present.
 MR. BOUVERIE  replied that at present the proceedings before Committees, needed no notification to the House, because the deliberations and duties of Committees were really deliberations and duties of the House; but in this case they were constituting a new tribunal, with which they would have no connection whatever.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not wish to say anything impertinent, but the right hon. Gentleman must remember that the proceedings of the Court would not be transacted in a cellar.
 MR. LOWE  remarked, that the objection of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) ought to be removed by a previous portion of the Bill, where the determination of the Court was ordered to be reported to the Speaker.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought there was an important omission in the clause, because, if the person petitioned against did not choose, from want of means or any other reason, to defend his seat, nobody else could come forward to rebut the charge of bribery and corruption made against the borough.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley)
 1176
 MR. J. STUART MILL  proposed, in page 14, line 11, to insert after "on the whole successful" the words—
 "And in the case of any such Petition where any corrupt practice is charged to have taken place, and where the court or judge has decided that any corrupt practice has been proved, the court or judge shall have power to order any portion or the whole of the costs, charges, and expenses to be defrayed by any party or parties who may have been proved guilty of corrupt practices, or by the county or borough, in the same manner as expenses incurred in the registration of voters for the county or borough, regard being had to the importance of securing the beat efforts of the county or borough for repression of corrupt practices. "In the case of any Petition complaining of general or extensive prevalence of corrupt practices, if the court or judge shall be of opinion that there was reasonable and probable ground for its allegations, the petitioner or petitioners shall be relieved of all costs, charges, and expenses incurred in and about the inquiry, and it shall be in the power of the court or judge to distribute the said costs, charges, and expenses in such proportions as it or he may think fit between parties who shall have been found guilty of corrupt practices, or who shall have caused expense by vexatious conduct, unfounded allegations, or unfounded objections, and the county or borough, as the case may be, the expenses charged on the county or borough to be defrayed in the same manner as expenses incurred in the registration of voters for the county or borough." 1177
 MR. AYRTON  remarked, with reference to the earlier part of the clause, that, as persons would be less able to inform themselves of their grounds of action through the shortening of time during which a Petition could be presented, a provision making the payment of costs depend upon the event would almost entirely prevent Petitions being presented.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Petitioner did not pay costs unless the Committee decided his proceedings had been vexatious. The Committee desired on the one hand to put an end to corrupt practices; but at the same time to protect a Member from improper Petitions. The Judge was vested with a discretion as to awarding costs.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he hoped the Amendment would not be pressed, and he did not believe the hon. Member would press it when he understood what it comprehended. It actually gave the Judge power to award costs against any man whom another might have charged with bribery under circumstances in which he could offer no defence. Any voter might go before the Judge and say, without the least foundation, "Such a one offered me a sum of money." He was sure, too, the latter part of the Amendment went far beyond the intention of the hon. Member.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  asked, whether since Judges could be trusted to decide cases of political importance, the Attorney General believed they could not be trusted to exercise proper caution in awarding costs?
 MR. LOWE  thought costs, properly so called, could only fall on persons who, as parties to the suit, could be heard; here, however, was a proposal to impose an arbitrary fine on persons not parties to a suit, and having no power to make themselves heard. The same remark applied to the borough or county as to persons, and the only possible precedent which could be quoted in support of either case was that of making an attorney pay costs for improper conduct in a suit.
 MR. POWELL  observed that there was surplusage in the use of the word "personally," as referring to the person guilty of bribery.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Amendment would effect a very important change in the Bill. The question raised by the hon. Member for Westminster had been very fully discussed and considered by the Select Committee, and that Committee thought it would be going too far to exclude a man from the House of Commons for seven years because he had been found guilty of treating or guilty of intimidation. That penalty was by the clause now under discussion inflicted on any person found guilty of bribery.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  observed that treating was bribery by means of eating and drinking, and therefore it was morally as bad as bribery by payment of money.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he hoped the Government would not assent to the proposed Amendment. He did not think that a punishment which was almost as bad as transportation for seven years should be inflicted merely for giving a man half-a-crown to get something to drink.
 MR. FAWCETT  hoped the hon. Member for Westminster would persevere with his clause.
 MR. CLAY  thought that intimidation was even worse than bribery.
 MR. POWELL  proposed to leave oat in page 14, line 37, the words "during the seven years" to the end of the clause, with the view of adding the words "or
 1179
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that the observations of the hon. and learned Member directed attention to a matter which it was necessary should be properly understood. It was desirable to know whether it was intended by the clause to repeal altogether the present law, which declared that, if a candidate were found guilty of bribery, treating, or undue influence, by himself or his agents, he should be incapable of sitting in the House of Commons during the Parliament then existing. The Committee would observe that agency was not mentioned in the present clause, and that omission would have the effect of operating as a very great stimulus and encouragement to bribery in those cases where the present law discouraged such offences. The unpopularity of the persons who spent large sums of money in corrupt practices was not so great as the advocates of purity of election might desire, and if a candidate who had committed bribery were allowed to stand again for the same place where the bribery had been practised, it would be ten to one in many cases that he would be returned. In abolishing Election Committees it was manifest that, if the House intended to retain the substance of the existing law, some words must be introduced into the Bill to make the present consequences of agency applicable to a person convicted by a Judge.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  stated that the intention of the Bill was that the penalty in the case of a candidate personally guilty of bribery should be more severe than at present; but it was not intended to alter the law applicable to candidates guilty of bribery by their agents, and he would, in order to preclude all doubt on the point, undertake to bring up a clause relating to the matter upon the Report.
 MR. LOWE  thought that the clause seemed framed with undue severity. An immense penalty was annexed to the offence mentioned in the clause, and they were obliged to exaggerate the character of the offence before they could bring themselves to assent to the penalty. The clause stated that where, by the report of a Judge upon an Election Petition, it should be found that bribery had been committed with the knowledge or consent of a candidate, such candidate should be deemed to have been personally guilty of bribery. They might say that, but their saying so did not make the candidate personally
 1181 1182
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) struck at the root of the whole Bill. Observations very much to the same effect had been made on many of the clauses of the Bill; but it was only now the right hon. Gentleman had arrived at a conclusion as to the real character of the Bill, and denounced it as a most deplorable calamity. They were attempting to combine a civil and criminal suit—to blend two very different things, and involving such tremendous penalties as seven years' ostracism from the House of Commons. But the objection of the right hon. Gentleman came somewhat late. After constructing the most excellent tribunal they could by possibility devise, and entitled to every confidence, they suddenly turned round, and would not allow justice to take its course. He, on the other hand, maintained they were bound to accept the legitimate consequences of what they had done in the penal character of the clause.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he found that the clause now under discussion was accepted by the Committee on the Corrupt Practices Bill last year  nem. con
 MR. LOWE : I did not vote for it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Motion was made and the Question put—
 "That it is desirable that persons found guilty of bribery or reported by the Judge or Commissioners as having been guilty of bribery should, notwithstanding any indemnity, be for seven years incapacitated from being elected as Members of Parliament, or voting for Members of Parliament, or holding municipal offices, or being included in a Commission of the Peace."
 MR. LOWE : I did leave the Committee-room.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman was there immediately before.
 MR. LOWE : I was.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No Member of the Committee took exception to the Resolution. Of course, it was open to any Member of the Committee to change his mind.
 Mr. LOWE : I did not change my mind on that matter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not say that the right hon. Gentleman had changed his mind. But he did not record his vote against the proposition. With regard to the question whether it was desirable to have such a provision he, would say a few words. Why was money spent in bribery? The object to be attained was a seat in that House; and if it were provided that on Members being convicted of spending money illegally in order to obtain a seat in Parliament that object would be defeated, very strong discouragement would be given to bribery. No doubt there might be combinations and conspiracies to prove distinguished Members of the House guilty of bribery; but they must trust, as in other cases, to the acumen of the tribunal to detect and defeat those conspiracies.
 MR. CLAY  said, he hoped that the Government would not be induced to consent to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge(Mr. Powell), which proposed to place the man who was cognizant of bribery being committed for him with the individual who was so unfortunate as to have over-zealous friends who bribed on his behalf, but without his knowledge. He doubted whether seven years' exclusion was a sufficient punishment for those who had been guilty of bribery.
 MR. PAULL  said, he was afraid that the words of the clause would not carry the punishment intended.
 MR. WHITBREAD , as a Member of the Committee, explained that the penal clauses had been very much discussed, and that the right hon. Member for Calne voted with the minority against them. The best course would be to withdraw the penal clauses, and to leave the law upon the point as it now stood.
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he thought it was not just to treat an accessory in the same manner as a principal, although it appeared the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) was incapable of understanding the distinction.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Powell), both on grounds of justice
 1184
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he thought the stigma resulted from the conviction of the offence, and not from the punishment inflicted by the tribunal. The real foundation of all who spoke against the clause was want of trust in the tribunal. He did not include the right hon. Member for Calne in the number, for he had been all along in favour of the tribunal. The Amendment did not provide against the candidate trying his fortune in another borough or county; for it might happen that the reputation which a candidate had acquired in this respect would tell in his favour in a locality where bribery was valued.
 MR. MONK  asked whether the Bill would be taken as the first Order on resuming Business this evening?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he hoped the noble Lord (Viscount Amberley) would withdraw his Motion that the clause might be agreed to.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. POWELL , said, he wished to limit the words, to prevent candidates from being entangled by acts of which they were not conscious. Under the clause it might be considered that, by the most casual proceeding, a candidate had engaged a person to act for him. He therefore proposed to insert after the word "engaged," the words "as an agent."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had failed to observe the hon. Baronet's Notice on the Paper; otherwise he would have risen immediately after his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) had concluded his speech. With regard to the observations of the hon. Baronet, he understood that for some time the Treasury had been Considering the question, whether there might not be a further reduction in the Veterinary Department of the Privy Council. He believed that if the provisions of the Metropolitan Cattle Market Bill should be carried out it would enable the Treasury to effect a considerable reduction in the expenses of that Department. But, apart from the question, whether that should be carried or not, the Treasury were considering whether a reduction could not be made. With regard to the remarks of the hon. Member for Pontefract, (Mr. Childers) he thought the hon. Gentleman had done good service in calling the attention of the House to the regulations with respect to the Civil Service. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the large amount of salaries and pensions, and the figures to which he had called the attention of the House, showed that this was a matter of no little importance. He had compared the number of persons employed at the present day in the different Departments of the Civil Service with the number employed some years ago; but he had himself admitted most candidly that that comparison would be imperfect unless you went into all the causes of increase, and into the different duties assigned to the Departments now in contrast with the duties assigned then. Anyone who had followed the course of legislation for the last few years must be aware that the tendency had been to require a much greater supervision over different branches of trade, of agriculture, and of the other descriptions of employment in which the population of this country was engaged, than had been required formerly. There was now a close inspection of the factories in which young persons and children were engaged in manufacturing operations. Now, such supervision required an increased number of civil servants and an enlarged organization. Again, there had been a rapid progress in luxury and refinements. Persons were
 1196 1197 1198 tabula rasa 1199
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The threefold operations just named have been brought to a termination.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that there was a Commission appointed to inquire into all the Art Institutions in Ireland, and he hoped the result of their labours would be to terminate the abuses to which the hon. Gentleman referred.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he was exceedingly sorry that he was unable to reply to the hon. Gentleman's statement last night. His attention had been called to the Return for which the hon. Member moved some months back, and which had been laid on the table. That Return showed that throughout the country there were a great number of towns, containing a considerable population, which were situated more than four miles distant from a Court of Appeal for Assessed Taxes. Considering the great amount of apparent inconvenience which that must occasion, it was surprising that the complaints of the taxpayers were not more frequent or more bitter than they were on that account. He could only say that, having made inquiry of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, he was informed it was very rarely that serious complaints were made to them of the inconveniences which must undoubtedly exist, and that practically they found little difficulty, when complaints were made, in getting the Local Commissioners to appoint more convenient places for holding the appeals. Still the subject was, no doubt, one requiring consideration with a view to the provision of a remedy. That was only one instance among many of what the people of this country were willing to bear in order to enjoy the advantage of a tribunal, which was independent of the Government. The Local Commissioners were generally country gentlemen, and were entirely unpaid. He would take care that inquiries should be made into the extent to which those difficulties prevailed, and hoped in the course of the Recess to be able to inform himself whether legislation on the matter was necessary, or whether it was possible by other means to remove great part of the inconvenience to which the hon. Gentleman had referred.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  stated that, through the wrong Paper being placed in the Chairman's hands, a much smaller sum was voted for Greenwich Hospital last night than was actually required, that being the last Vote that was taken. In order to remedy this he would move that the Report of Supply take precedence of the other Orders.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the extent, cost, and classification of the Civil Service. Premising that on account of the late period of the Session, to which, in order that certain Returns might be prepared, the question had been deferred, he was unwilling to delay the progress of the Estimates, and should not therefore address the House at so great a length as he had originally intended, he remarked that although there had recently been debates upon particular portions of the Civil Service, the entire subject of its organization had not been discussed for some time past. The present, he thought, was an appropriate time for considering it, for this was the end of a Parliament and of an electoral system, and the impending change would undoubtedly lead to considerable alterations in the manner of dealing with the public expenditure and public Departments. He was anxious, too, at a moment when our finances were not in a condition to afford any increase in these charges, to strengthen the hands of the Government; for an increase had unfortu-
 1186 1187 1188 1189 1190 1191 1192 1193 1194
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Post Office authorities are aware that the Circular Delivery Company (Limited) was a strictly co-operative Company, delivering documents, newspapers, and circulars for their own members only by their own servants; and, whether it is their intention to press for the penalties in the case, as it appears that the proceedings of the Company in question have been strictly within the provisions of the Post Office Act; and, whether it is intended to prosecute the body of Commissionaires, who have been for years employed publicly in doing precisely the same kind of work; and, if the Post Office authorities do not intend to prosecute in that case what are the reasons for the exemption, and how the Commissionaires can legally do that which the Circular Delivery Company (Limited) is prosecuted for doing?
 MR. TREEBY  begged to inquire of the Secretary of the Treasury, Whether he has directed his attention to the Return which he had brought under the Notice of the House last night, on the subject of Courts of Appeal in cases of Assessed Taxes?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he rose to call the attention of the Government to the present condition of the Royal Irish Academy, owing to the operations of the Irish Board of Works. There were three different operations carried on under one Department in Ireland, and the result was mismanagement, confusion, and expense.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he was extremely glad to receive this assurance. The Royal Irish Academy possesses the most remarkable collection of Scandinavian—he meant Celtic antiquities; and this vast collection is shut up in boxes scattered here, there, and everywhere. He wished to know, Whether anything is going to be done to enable the Royal Irish Academy to exhibit
 1201
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  rose to move—
 "That it is expedient that the Departments of Public Health, Cattle Plague, and Quarantine should cease to exist as Establishments, due regard being had to all personal interests and to all individual claims." "In short she was born, and bred, and nurst, And dressed in the best from the very first, To please the genteelest censor; And then, as soon as strength would allow, Was vaccinated, as babes are now, With virus taken from the best bred cow Of Lord Althorp's, now Lord Spencer." 1195
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he very much regretted the terms in which the Question had been put, because it was calculated to mislead the public in two very important respects. Any person who was not conversant with the Rules and Regulations of the Army would infer that officers invalided home from Abyssinia came home entirely at their own cost; and, secondly, that these officers had been treated in a different way to which officers who came from any other part of the world were treated. He must protest against any such inference. It might also be inferred that the War Office had a discretion in the matter, when the truth was that they had no power in reference to it. This case came under rules which applied to all officers from whatever part of the world they came. Officers who came home on sick leave were landed free of all cost in their own country; and the only cost to which they themselves could be put were travelling allowances as affected by accidental delays upon the way and the expense of travelling to their own homes from the place where they were landed. He thought, however, that the rule, restricted as he had explained, bore hardly upon some of the officers who came home ill, and that they should be sent free of cost to their homes, wherever those homes might be. On this account they were now considering a new rule. The rule had hitherto been that officers on sick leave should be considered in the same position as officers on general leave; but the new rule would be that officers sent home by a Medical Board should receive all their travelling expenses.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was under-stood to say that he could not answer that Question.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, What expense is entailed upon a prisoner by the process termed in Scotland "running his letters," and whether he does not think it advisable that this process should, in the interests of accused persons of small means, be made as simple and inexpensive as possible?
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he wished to know whether this would be prospective only, or whether it would apply to the officers whom he had referred to?
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the travelling allowance of Officers invalided home from Abyssinia has been disallowed; and, if so, for what reason?
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was prevented by the rules of the House from speaking again; but if it had been otherwise, his right hon. Friend would not have been able to answer the question put by the hon. Gentleman, because the matter to which it related was at the present moment before a Court of Law.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, his constituents were so much interested in this matter, that he must be permitted to speak on their behalf. He did not speak in virtue of his office. Unless the greatest care was taken in the mode of rating Cornish mines, that industry must come to an end. The Bill as it now stood, he took to be nothing more than a pointed sarcasm on the part of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). The hon. Member doubtless judged from the discussion which had already taken place, that there was no likelihood of bringing the question to a practical issue, and in the vein of which he was a master, he suddenly drew up a bald clause, which he offered to the Committee as a solution of the difficulties of the case which had perplexed all parties for years, and this clause the Committee, weary of the discussion, had suddenly adopted. It could not possibly work. To pass the Bill, therefore, as being a measure which dealt with all the difficulties of rating would not, he thought, redound to the credit of the House. The subject required further consideration. He could not help thinking that under these circumstances the House would do well to postpone legislation on this subject till the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. BRUCE  said, that though interested in coal mines, he thought that great question had properly been excluded from the present Bill. He wished to ascertain from disinterested parties whether the objections raised by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Sir Robert Collier) were well-founded? It had been said that the Bill would not work. In that case, it should be re-committed.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the Pharmaceutical Society did not wish to retain the words, and they were not originally in the Bill.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he objected to the omission of those words, which would unnecessarily limit the retail of common articles of household use. The clause which he proposed to substitute for the 17th clause in the Bill, would in the way of regulation give as much security as could reasonably be expected against the careless sale or wrong use of ordinary poisons.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he only desired that poisons should be bought, sold, and kept in bottles or wrappers properly labelled; so that, if possible, no mistakes should occur in their use.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would beg leave to move, at the end of the clause, to add—
 "Provided always that registration under this Act shall not entitle any person so registered to practice medicine or surgery, or any branch of medicine or surgery."
 LORD ELCHO  proposed that this clause should be struck out.
 MR. LOWE  proposed that the clause should be amended. There were two Amendments, in fact, before the Committee. The noble Lord proposed to substitute a new clause, and he (Mr. Lowe) would amend the present clause. The Committee would have to decide which was the preferable alternative. He admitted that the clause proposed by the noble Lord was a considerable improvement
 1216 "It shall be unlawful to sell any poison whatsoever to a person unknown to the seller, unless he gives evidence that he requires it for a legitimate purpose, and is aware of the uses, danger, and proper dose, as the case may be, of such poison." "Of poisons which are not articles in the British Pharmacopoeia, none shall be sold except under such conditions as are prescribed in regard of Arsenic by sections first and second of the Act fourteenth and fifteenth Victoria, chapter thirteen, intituled 'An Act to regulate the Sole of Arsenic,' which sections for this purpose shall be read as if the word 'poison' were throughout substituted in, them for the word' arsenic;' and of poisons which are articles in the said Pharmacopoeia, none shall be sold otherwise than under the same conditions as aforesaid, or else under the written order of a. legally qualified medical practitioner, unless it be prepared as an ointment or liniment or otherwise for external use, or, if for internal use, be in quantity not exceeding one ordinary medicinal dose of the article; and"
 LORD ELCHO  observed that the inconvenience of "asterisks" might be got rid of by having two Schedules. His right hon. Friend had admitted that the clause which he proposed to bring up was an improve-
 1217
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to know how a seller of poison was to ascertain the truth of a customer's assertion that he required the poison for destroying rats? He should support the Amendment.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, the clause would compel the homœopathist to put the word "poison" upon all his bottles.
 MR. LOWE  said, the answer to the hon. and learned Member's observation was that a whole bottle of homœopathic medicine would not amount to a dangerous dose. The difference between his clause and that of his noble Friend was that by his clause the buyer of poison must be introduced to the seller, whereas by his noble Friend's clause the buyer might be a person unknown to the seller.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that his clause required that the buyer should satisfy the seller that he required the poison for a legitimate purpose.
 MR. LOWE  said, that would leave the decision to the conscience of the seller, who had an interest in selling.
 MR. LOWE  said, he would submit that the principle of the Bill being to require education on the part of those who sell poisons, the clause was wholly indefensible:n making the distinction of a modified examination. It is urged that these persons have a vested interest. A vested interest in what? A vested interest in ignorance—in not knowing enough to pass the examination usually required.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he thought it would be very hard upon those now dispensing medicines if they had to pass the same examination as apprentices entering the business. A modified examination in their case would give the requisite protection to the public.
 MR. THOMAS CAVE  called attention to the fact that many of the present assistants had been in business and failed, and others were married. It would be very hard upon them to insist on their passing a stringent examination.
 MR. THOMAS CAVE  suggested the insertion in the fourth line of the words "for not less than four years."
 LORD ELCHO  said, he was willing to modify his clause to the extent suggested by the hon. Member for Barnstaple (Mr. T. Cave)—namely, that the assistants must have been actually engaged in the dispensing of medicines for four years.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he assented to the clause on the understanding that the assistants affected by it should have been engaged in the dispensing of medicines for four years, and should be registered assistants under the Pharmacy Act.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he would suggest that the term should be reduced to three years.
 LORD ELCHO s said, he was willing to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, and to reduce the period of service required to three years.
 MR. LOWE  proposed, in place of Clause 5, to insert a new clause (Registration of Chemists and Druggists), by which chemists and druggists should be entitled to be registered under the Act without paying any fee.
 LORD ELCHO  proposed a clause in lieu of Clause 17, rendering it unlawful to sell certain poisons marked with an asterisk in Schedule (A) to persons unknown to the seller, laying down certain regulations respecting the registration of the sale, and imposing penalties for breaches of such regulations.
 MR. LOWE  said, he objected to making a dintinction between poisons which a man might sell and poisons which he might not sell to unknown persons. He contended that those poisons referred to in the Schedule as poisons which ought not to be sold to persons unknown were really not more used for criminal purposes than other poisons. The asterisk would apply to arsenic, prussic acid, cyanide of potassium, strychnine, and corrosive sublimate; but oxalic acid, chloroform, aconite, belladonna, essential oil of almonds, and such things, do not fall within the provision.
 LORD ELCHO  said, the reason why was that these latter are used in the common purposes of life. Ho would suggest that the Schedule should be divided into two parts—one containing poisons in common use for ordinary purposes, and the other those of a more subtle character, and generally selected for criminal purposes.
 ME. LOWE  submitted that the distinction utterly fails.
 MR. LOWE  then moved that poisons should not be sold to persons unknown, unless such persons were introduced by a person known to the seller.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  thought that such a provision would lead to a system of touting.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  proposed an Amendment to the effect that no poison should be sold unless a purchaser could satisfy the vendor that he really required it for medicinal purposes.
 MR. LOWE  pointed out that the Committee had already agreed that no poisons should be sold to persons unknown. To pass this Amendment would render legal the sale of poisons to any one.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked in
 1220
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, the chemist might think the noble Lord wanted to destroy himself.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that having carefully examined the clause, he was of opinion that the wording of it was so vague that it would not properly work; and he recommended the hon. Member for "West Cumberland (Mr. Percy Wyndham) to adopt the suggestion which had been thrown out, and to allow time for the further consideration of the matter.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he felt bound to inform the House that his constituents
 1223
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, after the appeal to him by several hon. Members on both sides of the House, he would withdraw the Bill.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he regretted that the clauses framed by the Select Committee were not discussed last Wednesday, but hoped the provision contained in them would be brought forward again and fully considered. He thought the objections to the clauses were quite secondary to the affirmation of the principle of the Bill. Amendments might be introduced to meet the objections of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Sir Robert Collier). As to the clause for dividing the rate between the landlord and the occupier, two distinguished lawyers
 1222
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  said, he would also join in the appeal to the hon. Member for West Cumberland (Mr. Percy Wyndham) to postpone the further consideration of the Bill. He knew that the hon. Member would feel disappointed at not being able to pass the Bill; but it had been shown that it would cause great doubt and uncertainty, and the hon. Member would be much more disappointed if it were to give rise to dissatisfaction among the mining classes.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the hon. Member had obtained a clear expression of opinion on two points—that all mines at present exempted should in future be rated, and that there should be no special mode of rating. Without assistance from the Government the hon. Member could not hope to pass the Bill, and he would do well to withdraw it for the present.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that this was a question of Cornwall against all England. The Committee had come to the conclusion that mines in Cornwall as well as elsewhere should be rated; and he was sure that if the general law of rating were applied to Cornish mines, the local authorities would carry it out in a fair manner. If, however, difficulties arose, they could come to Parliament and ask for their removal. If the Bill was unworkable there were a sufficient number of Gentlemen of the long robe in the House to suggest such alterations as would make it workable. Some new clauses had been given Notice of, and be trusted the House would proceed to consider them, so that legislation might not be postponed till next Session, there having already been too much delay.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  replied that the Resolution had been received, and that due weight would be given to it. There was a Commission sitting on the subject, and until their Report had been taken into consideration it would be premature on the part of the Government to announce what course they proposed to take with respect to it.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that what he understood the House to mean was that all the mines in England should be rated on the same principle as far as possible, and that clauses were to be brought up at the present stage to render the measure workable. But on looking at the clauses on the Paper, he considered the objections of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir Robert Collier) perfectly valid. He therefore thought it desirable not to proceed further with the Bill during the present Session. He thought that the hon. Member for West Cumberland (Mr. Percy Wyndham) having
 1224
 MR. PAULL  said, he must oppose the Bill as one that would involve the mining interests in ruinous complications. The mining interests of Cornwall were not opposed to the principle of rating mines; but they insisted that if a measure were passed to assess mines, it should be a well-considered one, which would deal fairly with all parties.
 Sir PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If the unanimous Resolution of the Corporation of Dublin in favour of the purchase of the site of the Exhibition Palace for the Royal Irish Institute has been received; and whether the Government intend to accede to its prayer?
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he was not a Cornishman, and had no direct interest in this matter. He accepted the principle laid down by the House, that the law of rating should be applied to all mines. It would be very difficult, however, to apply it to the Cornish mines, unless special provisions were introduced, in consequence of the peculiar circumstances and conditions of that business. It was impossible to determine who was to be looked upon as the owner or occupier of such mines. The subject had been considered by a Select Committee last year, which recommended certain clauses that would have effected the object in view. But, instead of being agreed to, those clauses had been swept clean away at the last Wednesday's sitting. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) came to the table, and performed the unprecedented feat of concocting a Bill that was altogether new in five minutes. They had heard of the "Ten Minutes Bill;" but that was nothing to the legislative performance of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. He felt confident that its provisions would be found not to work. The yield being precarious it would be impossible to ascer-
 1221
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he desired to take that opportunity of expressing his opinion that it would be more useful to Sir Robert Napier and his family to give him a lump sum of £50,000 instead of the proposed annuity. Besides, the giving of a lump sum would be to throw all the burthen on ourselves, whereas this pension would throw a burthen on posterity. He very much regretted that Her Majesty had not been requested—if it would not be interfering with Her Majesty's Prerogative—to make Sir Robert Napier a Peer for life, instead of conferring upon him a hereditary dignity. He felt certain that the decision of the Lords on the question of life peerages would have to be re-considered. The introduction of such peerages would be one of the greatest improvements that could be made in the House of Lords.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : I should be sorry to make any attack on the noble Lord the Chairman of Committees in the House of Lords. I have never found him wanting in courtesy, and I believe him to have frequently done excellent service in protecting the interests of the public. In this instance I regret that a personal attack upon me by the noble Lord obliges me to say a very few words. The noble Lord, in complaining of railway influence at the Board of Trade, is reported to have said in reference to a similar clause to that of which I have given notice in the Railways' Regulation Bill—
 "In all probability the imprudence of the Vice President will impose upon your Lordships the necessity of reversing a decision of the other House."—[3  Hansard 1250
 COLONEL JERVIS  rose to move an Address for—
 "Copy of the Draft Regulations for the Control Department originally sent in by the War Office to the Treasury, together with any memoranda thereupon by the Assistant Under Secretary of State for War, together with the reply thereto by the Controller in Chief."
 MAJOR ANSON , referring to certain complaints he had made about a fortnight ago against the Manufacturing Departments in the War Office, said that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War, in replying on that occasion, had stated that his charges were vague and indefinite, whereas, on the contrary, they were specific and even minute in their details. The right hon. Gentleman had further stated that he had received no Notice of the charges he had brought against those Departments; but when the right hon. Gentleman was about to bring forward the Army Estimates in April last he informed him that he had a
 1255
 COLONEL SYKES  seconded the Amendment, of which he heartily approved, considering that it was for the interest of the Royal Gun Factories themselves that this investigation should take place, with a view to the removal of the suspicion which, no doubt, at present existed.
 MR. SPEAKER  ruled that the original Motion of the hon. and gallant Member (Major Anson) must be carried before the addition could be put to the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he regretted the aggrieved tone assumed by the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield (Major Anson), because there was already I enough of unpleasantness connected with the subject to make it advisable that in the House at least it should be approached as calmly and deliberately as possible. His hon. and gallant Friend commenced his speech by a complaint which had already been answered by the statement of fact that he had given no Notice of his intention to bring charges against the officers of the Gun Factory. He (Sir John Pakington) was sorry to say he could not retract a word he had uttered in that respect. The proof of Notice now was, that the hon. and gallant Member had some communication with him (Sir John Pakington) in April last, in which he intimated that he had a series of charges to bring against this Department; but the hon. and gallant Member must forgive him if he did not at that time bear in mind a communication made to him in last April. Then he referred to a letter and an answer; but the letter was not directed to him, but to Major Palliser. He thought that a letter written with his (Sir John Pakington's) authority, in April last, to Major Palliser, could hardly be considered a notice of the speech that the hon. and gallant Member was going to
 1257 1258 1259
 LORD HOTHAM  begged to be understood as not wishing to offer the slightest Opposition to the proposed inquiry when he expressed a hope that the Committee would not be nominated in the way proposed by the hon. and gallant Member (Major Anson). When the Committee of Selection had to nominate a Committee, it was their duly to find Members free from any connection with the subject to be investigated. It might so happen, therefore, that the Members appointed were entirely ignorant of the subject; but it must be their own fault if they remained long so, because, on entering the Committee-room, they found themselves confronted by numerous counsel whose duty it was to bring forward the facts on both sides. But in the case of the Inquiry, as proposed by the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield it would be quite different. If five Gentlemen entirely unconnected with and knowing nothing of the subject were selected there would be no counsel or no agents to bring the matter before them. The hon. and gallant Member for Truro (Captain Vivian) proposed an attempt to remedy that inconvenience by moving that two Gentlemen should be appointed—one to represent one side and the other to represent the other side—who should take part in all the proceedings, but abstain from voting. From his own experience in other cases, he was of opinion that a Committee formed in that way was a Committee of the worst possible kind for investigating a matter requiring examination. He thought that no Member should be placed on a Committee to take part in its proceedings, and at the same time to be relieved from the responsibility of voting. The proposed Committee was to investigate a subject of great public importance, and he could not see why it should not be selected by the House in the usual manner In this way a Committee might be selected to conduct the Inquiry fairly and impartially. Necessarily the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield would be nominated on one side, and he could not but think that his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War
 1260
 LORD ELCHO , on the part of the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield, who could not speak again, explained that the hon. and gallant Member had waited for a day or two in order to see whether the Inquiry would be proposed by the Secretary of State for War. The hon. and gallant Member having made the charges thought the investigation ought to be originated by the War Department. As regarded the imputation of motives, the hon. and gallant Member entirely eschewed the accuracy of the view taken by the right hon. Baronet of what he had said; but he was content to leave the question of motives to be decided by the Committee. His hon. and gallant Friend had brought no charges against any individual, but only generally against the system, and he was quite prepared to have his allegations thus tested before a Committee. As regarded the trial of this question he (Lord Elcho) confessed that the course suggested by his noble Friend opposite (Lord Hotham) appeared to be the right one.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  expressed his readiness to act upon the suggestion which had been thrown out by the noble Lord (Lord Hotham).
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that the Irish Government had nothing to do with the distribution of the troops in Ireland, except in cases of preserving the
 1291
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that the question raised by the Bill itself was one of very great importance, being nothing less than this—whether this country should continue the policy which it had been pursuing for twenty years, or whether it should reverse that policy. Parliament had now to consider whether it would revert to Protection or persevere in the great principles of Free Trade, which had led to results so beneficial, not only to this country, but to all the world. The Government had introduced a Bill of a most protective kind—and how had it been introduced? It had been, at least, as far as regarded the principle involved in it, smuggled into the House in the first instance; but when it came before the Select Committee he and other hon. Members perceived that it was a measure of rank Protection. It would defeat one of the great objects Sir Robert Peel had in view when asking Parliament to adopt the principle of Free Trade in cattle—namely, that of securing to the people of this country meat at prices within their reach. During the investigation conducted by the Select Committee it was admitted on all hands—by the advocates as well as by the opponents of
 1292 1293
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  said, that the Medical Officer's Report in 1863 stated that the diseases which figured behind the dead meat market were various. The more important were contagious fevers, parasitic diseases and typhoid; and Mr. Gamgee (who was admitted on all hands to be a great authority on such subjects) stated it to be his belief that one-fifth of the mutton, beef, veal, &c., sold in this country was considerably diseased. He also stated that the epidemic diseases were entirely owing to the importation of diseased meat, and that by the adoption of more strict precautionary measures it might be greatly reduced. It was well-known that pleuro-pneumonia was one of the most fatal kinds of cattle disease, yet up to the year 1845 it was absolutely unknown in this country. The number of cattle imported in I860 was 104,000, and three times the number imported died of disease. He had another duty to discharge in reference to this matter. In "another place," when the cattle plague was under discussion, all sorts of threats and menaces were held out against every magistrate who neglected his duty by not enforcing these Orders. Now he had often offended in this way, and as he believed that these threats were levelled at him, and as he was not allowed to say what Orders he would enforce, and what he would not, he had thought it his duty to announce at the Quarter Sessions that he had made up his mind to retire from the bench. He did not charge the Government and hon. Gentlemen opposite with having in view the reversal of Free Trade; but he must say such was their tendency. The Notice he had placed on the Paper was put there partly in irony, It was to this effect—
 "That any legal restrictions on the importation of foreign cattle are premature, until the request to the Russian Government to appoint an International Commission to consider the possibility of arresting the cattle plague in its place of origin, the Steppes of Russia, determined by the International Congress held at Zurich in September 1867, to which Professor Simonds was delegated by the President of the Privy Council, shall have received an answer." 1295
 MR. BRUCE  said, that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman was, that the Commissioners had not consulted the medical officer.
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE : The Commissioners said in their Report that they depended upon the excellent judgment, information, and experience of their medical officer, Mr. Simon; but when Mr. Simon came to be examined before a Committee, and was asked what he knew about the cattle plague, he said he could only speak as one of the party, and that he knew nothing about it. In September last, Mr. Simon was again sent into Germany, and on his return home he reported that he had attended a Convention of scientific men from all parts of the world—even Russia and Turkey being included. This Convention had come to a resolution to send to the Emperor of Russia to request him to take steps for the suppression of the cattle plague at the place of its origin on the Steppes. Being curious to know the result of this deputation, he put a question on the subject to the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council (Lord Robert Montagu), but the noble Lord informed him that that subject was not in his Department, he ought to apply to the Foreign Secretary. He accordingly put the same question to the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary (Lord Stanley) and he got from him the same answer as from the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council. It was stated by the officers of the Customs that there was not a word of truth in the statement that the disease was imported from abroad. It seemed to be their opinion that it was spontaneous. It had been stated, and he believed with great truth, that it was the desire of the Government to shake off their responsibility in this
 1296
 MR. T. T. PAGET  believed that this question had been introduced under the shield of Protection, carried on by Protection arguments, and he feared that it would close with the cry of Protection. He was not, therefore, surprised that that cry had been so ably met by his right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson). If the arguments on the one side, however, savoured too much of Protection those on the other side savoured too much of Free Trade, and to neither side did he feel disposed to give implicit adherence. He thought, however, that it was very desirable that a market should be established where the butchers of Brighton and other towns might enter into competition with the London butchers, instead of all the foreign cattle coming into London being at once killed and consumed in the metropolis. The Bill was, in his opinion, far from faultless, but he should certainly support the going into Committee, in the belief that the principle on which it was founded would be of advantage to the country.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Bill was a very important one, and it was utterly impossible to give it the consideration it deserved. Where were the Cabinet Ministers? Was the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council the only Member of the Government responsible for the Bill? It was most disrespectful to the House that no Cabinet Minister was present at a dis-
 1297
 MR. GILPIN  seconded the Motion.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he trusted the House would not assent to an adjournment of the debate. The hon. Member (Mr. Hadfield) had given no reason why it should be adjourned. The Bill had been introduced in December, and it was afterwards most carefully considered by a Select Committee. He had yet to learn that it is the practice of Cabinet Ministers to speak at the beginning of a debate. As regarded the absence of the Cabinet Ministers at the present moment, the hon. Member knew that this was the dinner hour. There was ample time to pass this Bill, and it was of the utmost importance that there should be a decision of the House. He had placed the question before the House on the ground of Free Trade, and not of Protection. He believed the majority of the people of this country to be in favour of the Bill. There was ample time to have passed it long ago had it not been for the factious delays that were offered. ["Oh !"] It was introduced on the 5th of December, read a second time on the 12th February, and referred to a Select Committee, where it was under consideration for more than two months. When the Bill came down again the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson) moved that the Report should be sent to the Examiner of Standing Orders, which had no other effect than to lose more time. The right hon. Gentleman attempted to over-ride the opinion of the House by dodges.
 MR. AYRTON  rose to Order, and said that the word "dodge" ought not to be applied to any action which a Member on the Opposition side of the House might, in his duty, think proper to take.
 MR. SPEAKER  thought that the noble Lord was scarcely in Order in using the word "dodge" in the remarks which he had made. He had better confine himself
 1298
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he did not mean anything offensive to the right hon. Gentleman, but the contrary. What he meant to convey was that the forms of the House had been somewhat ingeniously strained to prevent the progress of the Bill. He hoped the debate would not be adjourned until they had had the opportunity of hearing the opinions of the Cabinet, and perhaps of the Prime Minister himself, on the subject.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when this Bill was under discussion on another occasion, he took the liberty of pointing out the position in which they were placed, and there might be some misapprehension as to his views. ["Divide !"] We have not yet heard the opinion of one Minister of the Crown, and the Treasury Bench has not now a single occupant. Possibly that may be taken as a type of the mental state of the Government on the subject of this Bill. We have not heard one Minister of the Crown. The only Minister who was brought before the Committee was the President of the Board of Trade, and he distinctly stated that he was not cognizant of the nature of the Bill. ["Divide !"]
 MR. FRESHFIELD , as a Member of the Select Committee, wished to say a few words on the subject, although, not being a Minister of the Crown, he did not fulfil the condition laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed the House (Mr. Ayrton). At this time of the evening, however, it was somewhat unreasonable to expect the Members of the Government to be seated on the Treasury Bench. The question placed before the Select Committee was, whether this Bill was a proper one, and one which should become the law of the country. He confessed that he had had great difficulty in sitting on the same Committee with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson), for that right hon. Gentleman seemed to have been animated by two feelings—the one an insuperable hatred to Protection, and the other an almost idolatrous love of Free Trade. His love, however, began abroad and ended abroad. His love for a foreign ox was something touching; his love for a foreign sheep was something beatific; but the centre of his affection seemed to be in a foreign goat; whether the attraction was in its horns, in its aroma, or in its milk, in association with the right hon. Gentle-
 1299
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The witness had petitioned against the Bill, and he was promised compensation.
 MR. FRESHFIELD : The agent had prepared a very general petition; but the witness declared on his oath that the form of his petition was a mistake, and that he had never any other feeling than that the measure was a right and proper one. Could the right hon. Gentleman deny that? This evidence, although amusing, was at the same time instructive. As to the Members of the Select Committee voting in small majorities, all he (Mr. Freshfield) could say was, that the right hon. Gentleman was a man of such astute mind, that it was exceedingly difficult for persons less sophisticated than himself to understand the mode in which he conducted the case; and he dressed up his objections in so many forms that it was difficult to recognize the ! staple of them; and no kaleidoscope could give them more varied shape. As far, however, as one could collect them, the right hon. Gentleman's main objections to the Bill were these—First, he complained that they were legislating for contingencies; that the cattle plague might have existed, but that it existed no longer; and that they were imposing a heavy permanent burden on the country. That certainly was rather an extraordinary argument to emanate from the front Opposition Bench, considering that the occupants of that Bench had been endeavouring to pass a Suspensory Bill which should have
 1300 1301
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was sorry his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Freshfield) had compelled him, contrary to his intention, to take part in the debate and to make a protest on his own behalf. The hon. and learned Gentleman said he saw with great concern the unanimity of counsel that prevailed between himself (Mr. Gladstone) and two Gentlemen sitting on the same Bench with him; and from what he had said he was not in the House when he (Mr. Gladstone) addressed the House on a former debate upon this Bill; and his silence almost amounted to an admission of the fact.
 MR. FRESH FIELD  said, he was in the House, and heard the whole of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, and if time bad permitted he should have replied to it.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman's discretion was greater than if he had not heard it. On a previous occasion he avoided giving a positive or dogmatic judgment upon the great question of Protection involved in this Bill—the free or restricted supply of food—not because he might not have his own prepossessions with regard to it; but because he knew a number of Gentlemen on the Committee, and others, who were able to give to that evidence a degree of detailed attention he had been unable to give it, that he thought it but fair towards them and respectful to the House to leave the operation of the Bill to be discussed by them. He, however, dwelt on matter entirely distinct from that conveyed by his right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson). Not that he was ashamed of being associated with him on any question, and more particularly that of Free Trade, in which, for the last twenty-five years, his right hon. Friend had been the standard-bearer in what was now admitted to be the cause of the nation against not the real but the supposed and imaginary cause of the particular interest of a particular class. Therefore, if he divided himself on that occasion from his right hon. Friend it was from no reluctance to stand in the same rank with him. On a former occasion be dwelt on two points,
 1302
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  rose to Order. He understood that when his noble Friend the Vice President of the Council was making objections he was stopped by the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair on the ground that he had already spoken on the merits of the Bill, and that it was not com-
 1303
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, what he wished to point out was that his observations were simply a direct, unequivocal, and necessary reply to the hon. and learned Member for Dover (Mr. Freshfield); and why, he asked, did not his noble Friend [Lord John Manners] rise during the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dover when he was pointing out what a subtle disease the cattle plague was, and call him to Order? That had no immediate connection with the question of the adjournment of the debate, but the merits of the Bill. He had no wish to stand in the way and, as it was certain that this was a subject that must be fully discussed before going into Committee, he withdrew from making any further comment on his hon. and learned Friend's speech.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that this was unquestionably a Protection Bill. It was a Bill for protecting the public against eating diseased meat, and therefore, in the interests of the community, he should support it.
 MR. FORDYCE  said, that the farmers of Aberdeenshire had a great interest in preventing the introduction of the disease in cattle. Aberdeenshire was the largest cattle breeding county in Scotland, sending to London about 90,000 head of cattle, alive or dead, per annum. His constituents took a very simple view of this Bill. They said they were entitled, as a matter of police regulation, to precautions being adopted for keeping diseased cattle out of the country. Under a system of free and unrestricted importation one disease after another had been imported into this country. The cattle plague prevailed in Aberdeenshire, and the only successful measure was to isolate the county. What his constituents asked was, that the same plan should be applied to the whole country as far as practicable, and this object, so qualified, was carried out by the Bill. If the system foreshadowed in the Bill were carried out the result would be the establishment of dead meat markets in the neighbourhood of all large towns. It was not protection against foreign meat that his constituents wanted, but protection against disease. Hon. Gentlemen said, "Where is the ne-
 1304
 MR. GILPIN  said, he was in favour of the adjournment, thinking that the House was not at present in a position to come to a conclusion on this important subject, and he doubted whether it would be so during the present Session. It was no doubt the interest of the farmers of Aberdeenshire to obtain the highest price for their beasts, and it was equally the interest of the shoemakers of Northampton and others to get meat as cheap as possible. The Privy Council possessed sufficient powers for preventing the transfer of cattle throughout the country. He objected to the Bill as a return to Protection, and the arguments employed to show that the agriculturists needed protection from foreign cattle reminded him of those formerly used in support of protection from foreign corn.
 MR. NEWDEGATE , as an unrepentant Protectionist, thought the proceedings of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite were calculated to further what he desired—namely, the modification of the present system of Free Trade in corn. They claimed a right to import disease ["No !"] unrestricted, except by Orders in Council. They might cry "No !" but that was really the meaning of the Opposition. Now, he had the same objection to that elastic system, so much admired by the right hon. Member for South Lancashire, that his forefathers had to ship-money.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it did not seem a very satisfactory course to adopt to move the adjournment at that hour; but there were circumstances which sometimes rendered it necessary to take an exceptional course. The subject now under debate had been before the House for three nights; it was a measure of great importance, inasmuch as it affected the food
 1305 "How are we to feed the poor? There are some difficulties in dealing with the subject, but the greatest of all is the feeding of the poor. If the beasts are killed at Harwich only the best joints would be sent up to London, for it would not pay to send up the others. But the working classes do not live upon the best joints, but upon shins of beef; not upon Southdowns, but upon Merino sheep; not upon joints, but upon offal; and that offal will never be brought to London if the animals are slaughtered at their places of landing." 1306
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Milner Gibson) would have taken a wider and a broader view of this matter than he had done. No Member of the House knew better than the right hon. Gentleman that the large slaughter in Holland of cattle which took place during the cattle plague had had the effect of greatly reducing the price of meat. Dutch beef was sold in the London market at 6½ d. d. d. 1307
 MR. J. B. SMITH  supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) for the adjournment of the debate. He wanted to know what they were to think of the huge trades union formed in that House for the purpose of raising the price of the food of the people. ["Oh, oh !"] What had they seen in the House this evening but a trades union, pursuing the same course as the trades unions they had all heard so much of. ["Oh !"] They had heard that hon. Members were engaged in preparing a missive to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli); in fact, that they were preparing to "ratten" him unless he conformed to their wishes. Under
 1308
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise, Sir, to speak on the question of adjournment, and I must say I very much regret to have heard that such a Motion was made. It seems to me to be a most unusual course to adopt on such an occasion. The observations that no Ministers were present on this Bench at eight o'clock, if accurate, have not been made in that spirit of courtesy which generally pervades our debates. Nor is it true, I think, that there has been an absence of Ministers of the Crown generally during this debate. There have been two long Morning Sittings. I have been present at them, and I have been in my place the whole of this day. It is not customary to make such remarks; it would be inconvenient for both sides, and I think it is scarcely justified. It appears to me that it is desirable that the House should come to a division; not, however, upon the question of adjournment, but on the merits of the case. If the House wishes that the debate should be prolonged, I am perfectly ready to take part in it, and there are others of my Colleagues who are prepared to do the same. I think that, under these circumstances, if the House comes to a division upon the question of the adjournment we shall be liable to great misrepresentation, and there will be some ground for the insinuations which have been thrown out that there is a desire on the part of a portion of the Members of this House not to meet the question with that fairness which is desirable. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire has made an inquiry which, though I am speaking on the question of adjournment, I would wish to answer. The right hon. Gentleman says he is anxious to know why we did not meet the necessities of the case by Orders in Council instead of this Bill. I quite admit that that is a very fair inquiry, and one which I think would occur to any one who gives a candid consideration to this question. But the real cause for the introduction of this measure was that Orders in Council did not meet the necessities of the case. We are obliged to hare recourse to statutory
 1309
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should be sorry to interrupt in any way the course of Business, and would therefore withdraw the Motion.
 MR. JACOB BRIGHT  said, he considered the House had a very important duty to discharge in deciding upon the present question, affecting as it did the supply of food to the people. The question assumed increased importance when they considered the character of the country, which, with perhaps one exception, was
 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314 1315
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if his name had not been at the back of the Bill he would have spoken, as the subject of the Bill was one in which he took great interest. He deeply regretted the tone of the debate, which was calculated to create the false impression that this was a question between urban and rural interests. He wholly denied that there was any such conflict. The hobgoblin of Protection had been raised in order to defeat the Bill. Now, since he had had the honour of a seat in that House the question of Free Trade and Protection had been entirely settled, and he had never heard any Member attempt to revive the old Protectionist doctrine. If he thought the present proposal would revive that doctrine in any shape be would never have allowed his name, as it did, to appear on the back of the Bill. The simple question they had then to consider was, what was the best way of keeping our flocks and herds, on which we mainly depended for the food supply of the people, free from the contagion of disease imported from abroad? It must be admitted that town and country were interested in keeping our herds free from contagion. The question was, could that be better done by a system of exceedingly complicated and vexatious regulations than by fixing upon a place where foreign cattle should be landed and slaughtered? That was the only question to be considered; and all that had been said about the towns Buffering from the measure was beside the mark. He admitted that the matter was not wholly free from difficulty, that there was much to be said on both sides, and that, if the Bill had come before the House two years ago he should not have supported it. He had sat upon the Committee presided over' by the right hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) on the subject of Trade in Animals; and when the labours of that Committee were concluded they sent in a Report which abstained from recommending the adoption of a measure like the present. But the experience they had since acquired convinced him—as it con-
 1316 1317
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  was under stood to say that the contractors were not permitted to slaughter the beasts in London.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no doubt that an enlightened Government like the present would find means to make an alteration in that respect. Then it had been objected that it would ha exceedingly inconvenient to persons in the trade to have to go to two markets; and he did not deny that the change, like all other changes, might be productive of a certain amount of inconvenience; but that inconvenience would soon cease to be felt, as persons in the trade would in a very short time conduct their business according to the altered state of affairs. It had Also been urged that under the system now proposed there would he no real security against infection, because persons after handling the beasts in one market could go and handle the beasts in the other. No doubt contagion might arise in that way; but he was of opinion: that the danger of it was very much lessened by the scheme proposed by the Bill; for in 1865 and 1866, when the cattle
 1318
 MR. CLAY  said, the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich (Colonel Jervis) had told them that the opposition to this Bill proceeded from some twenty great cattle salesmen. He should have thought that the length and course of this debate might have assured the hon. and gallant Gentleman that the opposition sprung from much wider and more powerful sources. If he (Mr. Clay) were convinced that the Bill was to be confined to the metropolis alone he would have left the metropolis to the care of her natural guardians; but  proxirmis ardet Ucalegon. 1319
 MR. BRUCE  said, in the few observations he had to address to the House, he would endeavour to adopt the moderate tone of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would also try to contribute to the object they all ought to have in view—namely, the prevention of disease with the least possible restrictions in trade. He thought it was admitted on all hands that even if this Bill passed during the present Session its supposed advantages could not be secured for three years. That was an objection to it; but he also objected to the Bill because he thought it an imperfect measure, and one which could not produce the results which it was intended to bring about. The noble Lord who introduced the Bill (Lord Robert Montagu) had applied very hard words to some of the witnesses who had given evidence upon the subject. The noble Lord charged the
 1320 1321 1322 1323 1324
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Bill would affect his constituency in two ways—first, as it attacked a portion of their trade, and one which they carried on to a considerable extent; and next, as it taxed their food. He was therefore desirous to learn what were the views of the Government on it. Though the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been good enough at length to address the House, he had carefully abstained from a single remark upon the two subjects which had been specially urged upon the attention of the Government. These two topics were the principle of public policy raised by the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson), and the question of finance. The Chancellor of the Exchequer did not say one word on those topics. He (Mr. Ayrton) therefore found himself in as much difficulty as before in these respects. He did not approach this Bill in a spirit of hostility; from the first he had contended that the cattle trade should be dealt with by the joint action of town and country, and from the first he had protested against setting up distinctive interests. He had been called the father of the policy contained in the Bill; but if the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) had only acted on the suggestion which he made last Session, the House would not have been troubled with the difficulties in which it was now plunged.
 1325 1326 1327
 MR. DISRAELI : I hope the House will come to a division upon this stage of the Bill. We have heard in this debate that this measure is the revival of Protection. Remembering that some of the speakers to whom I have listened are distinguished for their knowledge of political economy and their opposition to all artificial systems of restriction, I am surprised that that accusation should be made so freely. We have heard something also
 1328 1329 primâ facie 1330
 MR. BAZLEY  attempted to address the House; but, there being loud cries for a division, said he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. DISRAELI : I hope the hon. Gentleman will proceed with what he has got to say. I have myself been often received in that manner; but I found the House listened to me when I went on.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I should be very glad if my hon. Friend (Mr. Bazley) were disposed to withdraw his Motion for Adjournment. I am bound to say that in my opinion—especially after listening to the right hon. Gentleman—the financial part of the question has assumed an appearance still more formidable; and it is my intention to raise that question, if no other Member does so, on the Motion that you, Sir, do leave the Chair. With the extensive prospects opened out by the hon. Member for Aberdeenshire (Mr. Fordyce) that this is the beginning of a system of which we have had one or two specimens, in the town, of Hull; for example, and that
 1331
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was not satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury. He hoped that the Bill would be left to he dealt with by the new Parliament.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, that while he disclaimed all intention to annoy Her Majesty's Government he should move that the debate be now adjourned.
 MR. DISRAELI : I trust the hon. Gentleman will not make that Motion. It will stop all the Business of the evening.
 MR. GLADSTONE  rose to ask what course the Government intended to take? He presumed, however, that after the division which had been just taken they would object to the adjournment of the debate. For his own part he should certainly not press the adjournment of the debate; but he wished to refer to a matter that had been hardly touched on by the Government. It had only been very briefly mentioned by the First Minister, and never until that speech was delivered. He should endeavour to set forth briefly what he had to say on that matter, in deference to the wishes of hon. Gentlemen opposite. With
 1332 1333 1334 1335
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he regretted that when he before addressed the House he was not
 1336 1337 s. d. s. d.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that was not so. Instead of being 5 s. d. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that was a question of fact which might be very easily settled. All he could say was, that if they passed this Bill as presented by the Government, there would be a perfect security that it would be properly carried out in the fact that the City of London would be willing to undertake it as the market authority. It was therefore idle for the right hon. Gentleman to say that financially the Bill would not hold water.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire had advised the House not to delude the farmers, and he made a strong statement with respect to Hull, where what he called the foreign trade had been almost
 1338
 MR. GLADSTONE : I never used the words the right hon. Gentleman is putting into my mouth, nor anything like them.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if they had cleared away the difficulties in the path instead of uselessly protracting the debate by pressing the same speeches over and over again, they would either have carried the Bill through Committee by this time, or else have left it in a condition much more accessible to the legislation of the new Parliament.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, that the Orders of the Privy Council were sent temporarily, while the Bill would be permanent it its operation. With regard to the question of imports, the cause of the decline was the
 1339
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  made an appeal to the First Minister of the Crown. Seeing that the agriculturists of England, Ireland, and Scotland felt so strongly on this question, and seeing that the decision of the House had been marked so emphatically in favour of the Bill, he appealed to the right hon. Gentleman to give his consent to postpone the prorogation of Parliament a sufficient time to enable this truly Protectionist measure to be proceeded with.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would now consent to the adjournment of the debate. The Statements which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister, and by the right hon. Gentlemen the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to the financial part of the Bill were such as to render a further discussion of the main principle of the Bill absolutely necessary. He was not averse to any reasonable arrangement in favour of the agricultural interest; but he protested against the extravagant clauses contained in the present Bill. He made the suggestion that the debate should be adjourned in order to save another division, and perhaps a long series of divisions.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would have consented to an adjournment of the debate before the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone) spoke. But as that right hon. Gentleman had had an opportunity of which he had availed himself of speaking upon the financial part of the Bill, and as his observations had been answered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, there was really no reason whatever why the main principle of the Bill should be further discussed, and why the House should not at once go into Committee upon that Bill. He should certainly oppose the Motion for Adjournment.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had replied to his right hon. Friend, but he had certainly not answered him—["Oh, oh !"]. He had given no answer to the question, where the funds
 1340
 MR. DE GREY  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) would consider favourably the appeal made to him by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Berkshire (Sir Charles Russell) not to prorogue the Parliament till this measure was passed. Such a step, though it would be a sacrifice of time and trouble, would be appreciated by the country; and if the Bill were passed into a law this codicil to the will of a moribund Parliament would be a legacy gratefully acknowledged by all classes.
 MR. COWEN  said, they had been there for fourteen hours and had to meet again at two o'clock in the afternoon, and he therefore moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. DISRAELI  trusted that the House would not embark in these barren and distressing practices which they appeared likely to pursue. He hoped that after the very large majorities which had been in favour of going into Committee, the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Motion, particularly as those majorities were furnished not from that side of the House alone. He did not desire to say anything by way of menace; but if the hon. Gentleman persisted in these Motions, he should not continue to oppose them in the present jaded state of the House, more particularly as there was to be another Sitting that day. It was the usual practice of minorities to defer to the opinions of the majority, especially when that majority had been so large as it had been that evening; and he trusted, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in the course he was now adopting.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had understood from the right hon. Gentleman that he would not have objected to the adjournment of the debate if it had been moved before the speech of his right hon.
 1341
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, he thought that both sides of the House should clearly understand the position in which they now were. The opponents of the measure should understand that those who supported it would go into Committee if they continued dividing till two o'clock to-morrow after noon.
 MR. COWEN  said, he could tell the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Colonel Jervis) that he too would sit there, if necessary, till two o'clock to-morrow afternoon.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  pointed out to the opponents of the measure that they would be in no worse position if they permitted the Speaker to leave the Chair than they now were. [An hon. MEMBER: Yes, we shall; very much.] He trusted that for the sake of the character of the House the present factious proceedings would not be persisted in.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it was not usual when there were Morning Sittings to discuss opposed Business at that hour. He hoped the First Minister would give some assurance that he would assent to an adjournment of the House.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  complained that the Bill had been treated in a most discreditable manner by the Gentlemen opposite.
 MR. MONK  said, he hoped the House would go into Committee that night. He; protested against these continued Motions for Adjournment. There were a great many even on the Liberal side who were in favour of the Bill, and he thought it ought to be proceeded with.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, there were a number of Gentlemen who were determined to oppose the Bill at all hazards.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he had felt strongly opposed to the Bill; but
 1342
 MR. AYRTON  called attention to the fact that the First Minister of the Crown had left the House, and asked who was in charge of the Business of the House.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the Prime Minister was willing, supposing the House went into Committee, to report Progress at once, and fix the Bill for Monday.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  seconded the Motion.
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked what were the forms of the House. If necessary, those on the Ministerial side of the House would walk continually into the Lobbies till ten in the morning.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  made an appeal to hon. Members opposite on behalf of the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair. They were hardly treating him fairly by keeping him in the House at that late hour, mid he hoped they would not press the Motion for the adjournment.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had intended rising to make a similar observation. If hon. Members had no consideration for themselves, they should at least have some consideration for the Speaker, who had, with the exception of the two hours between four and six, been practically in the Chair since twelve o'clock, and it was now twenty minutes to three.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he felt obliged to those Gentlemen who had made that appeal in his behalf. But he wished that hon. Members, without any reference to his convenience, should be guided by what they considered proper and suitable and becoming the dignity of the House.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  asked why the Irish Registration Bill had been placed after the Bill under discussion? The Irish Members had been pressed to wait for it; and why? Because it was known they were generally favourable to the Cattle Bill, and would, of course, support the Government. ["Oh. oh !"]
 MR. NOEL  denied the statement.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was quite ready to admit the opposition, which had been as industrious as the Government's; but he maintained that indirectly the effect had been as he had stated. He, however, recommended his hon. Friend (Mr. Candlish) not to press his Motion.
 MR. CANDLISH , reminding hon. Members opposite it would have been more consistent if they had consulted the Speaker's comfort hours before, withdrew his Motion.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  denied that he had ever contended that the Controller-in-Chief was to be equally powerful with the Secretary of State for War. On the contrary, he had always expressed the opinion that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War should possess entire and supreme control over his own and every other Department connected with the army. He asked the right hon. Gentleman whether there was any material difference between the draft regulations that were withdrawn and the regulations which were now being acted upon. He understood that they were substantially the same. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would accede to his hon. and gallant Friend's wishes.
 COLONEL JERVIS : What I said was, that it would appear to be so from the reading of the Papers.
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, that he felt bound not to withdraw his Motion for the production of these Papers.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had no doubt, though he had had no communication with the right hon. Gentleman on the subject, that the Attorney General had given consideration to this Question. He apprehended, however, that his learned Friend would think much further inquiry necessary before he could decide upon instituting proceedings, about the result of which it would be impossible to judge.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, the Government were not responsible for the alterations made in the books referred to. If the hon. Gentleman would give a list of the Returns he required, he (the Earl of Mayo) would take care to furnish him with all the information he required.
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, he did not think the right hon. Baronet understood the subject. This £5,000 was part of £10,000 which should have been voted last year for the Engineers.
 MR. PACK-BERESFORD  trusted that the Committee would not consent to withdraw this £5,000.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that an Order for the discharge of Michael O'Hanlon was made out on the 8th of this month, and he had heard that morning that he had been discharged under that Order.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, the House will probably Lave seen in some English newspapers the Despatch from, the United States' Government upon this subject, to which the Question of the hon. Member refers. That Despatch was placed in my hands a few days ago, and it appears to have been made public in America previous to its reaching this country. Before it came into my hands, I had written to the British Minister at Washington upon the subject—a Despatch which must have crossed that of Mr. Seward on its way to this country. In that Despatch I explained the views of Her Majesty's Government upon the question of naturalization as it now stands. In answer to the hon. Member's Question, I may say that I have no objection to lay that Despatch, as well as that of Mr. Seward, upon the table. I may also repeat what I have already stated in answer to a Question put to me in this House, that Her Majesty's Government are quite prepared to accept in principle the views of the naturalization question for which the United States' Government contend, and therefore I do not apprehend that any misunderstanding can arise out of it. We have declined, however, to enter into any treaty upon the subject just at present, for two reasons—firstly, because some legal details have to be arranged, and are now being considered by the Commission appointed for that purpose; and next because, even if we were to act irrespectively of the Report of that Commission, such a treaty would be perfectly useless until an Act of Parliament is passed to bring it into operation. I need not say that in the state of Business—not only as it is now but as it has been for the past month—it would have been useless to attempt to bring in so large and important a measure. If it should be my fortune to have any share in the Government next year, I shall be ready to introduce a Bill upon the subject in the new Parliament.
 THE EARL OF MAYO , in reply, said, he was glad the hon. Member put the Question, because considerable misapprehension seemed to exist upon the subject. The two prisoners referred to were convicted for coming to Ireland in an armed vessel, and cruizing along the coast in order to raise an armed insurrection against the Queen. The only evidence given against them of their proceedings in the United States of America—was that they were members of the Fenian Brotherhood previous to the 5th of March, 1867, the date of overt acts connected with the rising in which their brother conspirators were engaged. That evidence was necessary to connect them with the Fenian society, and in accordance with the terms of the Treason Felony Act that brought them within the jurisdiction of this country, so that in reality their case did not differ in any considerable degree from those of the great mass of the Fenian prisoners tried and convicted in Ireland. He was afraid the time was hardly yet come when it would be possible to enter into anything like a general consideration of the sentences passed upon the Fenian prisoners with a view either to a commutation or a remission
 1283
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that the commercial treaty between Sweden and this country did contain the "most favoured nation" clause, but stipulations of that kind had not been held to apply, and he did not think it reasonable that they should be considered as applying to restrictions temporarily imposed for sanitary purposes only, and not imposed with a view of giving one country a commercial advantage over another. That also answered the second part of the Question of the hon. Gentleman, which related to our treaty engagements with Prussia. With regard to the third part of the Question, many representations had been addressed to Her Majesty's Government on the subject; but although these representations were addressed to the Foreign Office in the first instance, it rested, not with him, but with the Council Office to consider what restrictions should be imposed for sanitary purposes.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that that was a matter for argument.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman put a question on a hypothetical case, which he could not answer on an occasion of this kind, inasmuch as he would have to enter on a longer discussion than the rules of the House would permit him. If the right hon. Gentleman wished to raise the question, he had better bring it on in a form in which it might be debated.
 MR. GILPIN  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Government have any objection to continue to allow Foreign Sheep imported into London to be removed alive to populous inland towns as at present, with the sanction of the Privy Council; and, if so, whether there would be any objection to except Foreign Sheep from the operation of the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill?
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What were the circumstances which induced the Government to send 50 men and 2 officers of the 28th Regiment to Coleraine on July 13th?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that the removal of men to particular places could not be taken as an indication that any disturbance of the public peace was apprehended. The fact was, that they were placed only in those spots where their services, if they were required, would be most available, and the sending of those troops to Coleraine was due to this circumstance alone.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer—it having been given in evidence before the Select Committee on the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill that the provisions of that measure would have the effect of considerably raising the Government Contracts for the supply of cattle for the Army and Navy, and thus of increasing the Army and Navy Estimates, Whether there would be any objection to providing that foreign cattle, whether imported into London or any other port, may be forwarded alive, on the same conditions as English cattle, to Aldershot, Portsmouth, and Chatham, and other military and naval establishments, with the sanction of the Privy Council?
 LORD ELCHO : No; what I said was, I do not think it impossible that the article was inspired. I did not say that I had reason to believe it was inspired.
 LORD ELCHO  said, this question of Army Control could not be too often considered. It was not his intention to find fault with his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War, for in all communications with his right hon. Friend he had always found him most anxious to promote the efficiency of the service; and he believed that if the right hon. Baronet could have had his will, and if the Control Department had been established in accordance with the Letter of the 8th of March, there would be no reason for any Member of that House to find fault with what had occurred. There existed an erroneous impression among a portion of the public, who supposed that this controversy was a fight between the civil and military officers of the War Office, the latter endeavouring to place the military element above the civil clement. He held in his hand an article which appeared recently in the Saturday  Review "The adverse decision of the Treasury is of: course, for all practical purposes, an end of the really great career which was open to Sir Henry Storks and General Balfour at the War Office. They had the chance of distinguishing themselves by the introduction of great reforms into our Army Administration. They have used their opportunity to serve a project for intensifying the already intolerable control which the Horse Guards indirectly exercises over the War Office. If they had been left undisturbed, not a civilian would have remained six months in any position of importance, and the army would have governed the Minister of War through his exclusively military subordinates, and have risen superior to Parliamentary control. What it would have cost under such a system no one can guess; but happily the chief agents in the scheme have defeated themselves by excess of zeal. There is now little more to fear, for, though discussion may be burked in the present Parliament, military domination is the last thing which the new House is likely to endure. Whether Sir Henry Storks and his assistant will retire on the significant hint of the Treasury, or will cling a little longer to the rank and emoluments of a position which they have not known how to fill, is very immaterial." 1267 1268 1269
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that the Royal Commissioners did not recommend the removal of the property referred to by the hon. Member for the approaches to the New Law Courts. And, however desirable it might be that these houses should be removed for metropolitan improvements, Her Majesty's Government had no intention of giving the notices with a view of bringing in a Bill for the purchase of the property next year.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the question was not as to the landing of cattle, since that was permitted, but as to what was to be done with the cattle after they
 1286
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU , in reply, said, although there were still thirty-one outstanding claims for compensation, the delay was not in the Council Office; it arose from the difficulty of getting the necessary information from the clerks of the local authorities. The final Report on the Cattle Plague was now awaiting only the completion of the medical Report and the illustrations. It was true that portions of it were in type in May, 1867, but those portions consisted only of the statistics for 1865 and 1866. The Report, when com-
 1289
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, in reply, that there was no intention to prevent foreign sheep from going into the country, as the Order in Council showed; but the evidence adduced against the Bill by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Milner Gibson)—he referred especially to that of Mr. Rudkin, the Chairman of their Market Committee—proved incontestably that there was great danger in the free transit of foreign sheep, and induced the Committee, and the Government also, to come to the conclusion that it was necessary to prevent sheep from infected places from going into the country.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, there was no port of export from Denmark proper.
 MR. A. RUSSELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, considering the recent decision of the House to confer the franchise on the officers of the Customs, Inland Revenue, and Post Office, he is not of opinion that Members of Parliament should be precluded from making application in favour of persons seeking employment in those Departments?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the Question of the hon. Member rather tended to anticipate the discussion which would probably arise on the first Order of the Day. As he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) understood it, the evidence of the Government contractors was that they would be able to supply dead meat at Aldershot cheaper than live meat. He did not think this was a convenient time for discussing contradictory opinions on the point.
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. Member can bring on his Motion upon the Report of Supply under any circumstances.
 MR. DISRAELI : The House will sit on Saturday, and I have no doubt the hon. Gentleman will be then afforded the opportunity he desires.
 MR. DISRAELI : I repeat it is the determination of Her Majesty's Government to carry the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill, and all I can say is this—I will not advise Her Majesty to prorogue Parliament until that measure is definitely decided upon by the House. With that view alone I propose a two o'clock Sitting of the House to morrow in order to go on with that Bill. With regard to the appeal of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Milner Gibson) on the subject of Corrupt Practices, I do not think that I have said anything to justify that phrase as a description of my policy. My wish is to fulfil the engagements I have made with a number of Gentlemen on both sides of the House. I
 1275
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he trusted the House would consider before giving a decision on a point which was of the utmost importance. If the House were to insist upon the production of Papers and Correspondence which concerned the preparation and preliminary consideration of measures, they would thereby put a stop to that freedom of criticism which was always invited on such occasions, and which contributed so much to the perfection of public measures. The moment that it became known that the opinions of those most competent to judge of public measures, and who were invited to express them, were likely to be produced in that House, great disadvantage to the public service would result, because everybody would naturally shrink from the responsibility he would have to encounter. Instead, then, of the Government having the advantage of the suggestions which they were in the habit of receiving, and the information and criticism which better enabled them to carry out any changes which they contemplated in the administration of public affairs, they would find themselves in the position of having to deal with merely mechanical persons, who would afford only information upon points on which they were well up, and they (the Government) would lose the advantage arising from those large spontaneous suggestions, and from that general information which tended greatly to the advantage of the public interests. He trusted then, for the sake of the public service, that the House would not assent to this demand for the production of the Papers called for.
 MR. DISRAELI , referring to several other Amendments on the Paper, said, it was really of the utmost importance that the House should go into Committee upon the Army Vote. He hoped that the hon. Member for Cashel (Mr. O'Beirne), who had a Motion on the Paper respecting the Shoeburyness experiments, would waive his right, in order to allow the Vote in question to be taken in Committee.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that he could not see the use of giving to the House a despatch from a late Secretary of State to a late Governor of a colony which no longer existed, respecting negotiations which had come to an end. New negotiations were now on foot, which he had recently stated to the House; but, for reasons he then gave, it would not be proper to lay any Papers on the table respecting them until they had come to a conclusion.
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House the Estimate founded upon the plan of Colonel Gordon, which was selected by Her Majesty's Government for the new Embassy House at Therapia; and whether the contract has been entered into for the erection of that house?
 MR. NEATE  offered his notes on the evidence taken before the Bristol Election Committee to the Attorney General, and assured him that the information they contained would enable him to prosecute a dozen persons without a moment's hesitation.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, he had confined his question to Denmark proper.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, he wished to ask, Whether, as Denmark was free from the cattle plague, the Government intend to withdraw the restrictions on the importation of cattle from that country?
 MR. NORWOOD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Commercial Treaty between Sweden and this Country contains the "most favoured nation" Clause; and, if so, whether the Government propose to extend to cattle imported from Sweden—being a country free from cattle plague—similar privileges to those which have been granted to cattle imported from Portugal, Spain, and Normandy: whether it would not be in accordance with our Treaty engagements with Prussia, which embrace the "most favoured nation" Clause, that similar privileges should also be granted to cattle imported from Schleswig Holstein, in case such province be found to be entirely free from cattle plague; and, whether any representations have been made to Her Majesty's Government in reference to the importation of cattle from Denmark, and whether the Government declines to remove the existing restrictions on the importation of cattle from Denmark, al-
 1285
 MR. READ  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, If his attention has been called to the great and increasing destruction of growing crops and other property by fires caused by sparks from Railway Engines; and why Railway Companies should not be prohibited from
 1288
 MR. READ  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Privy Council, If all the Claims for Cattle Plague Compensation are settled; and when the final Report on the Cattle Plague—a great portion of which has been in type since May, 1867—will be in the hands of Members; and, whether the Veterinary Department of the Privy Council Office is likely to be permanent; and, if so, why Agricultural Statistics, which cost last year £18,000, the Corn Averages, costing annually £2,700, and other Returns connected with Agriculture, should not be collected through this Office?
 GENERAL DUNNE  called attention to the Report of the Committee on the Military Reserve Funds; and referred to the several schemes suggested for promoting retirement among officers of the Royal Artillery and Engineers, contending that the inducement to be offered to officers to retire should be equal to their hopes if they remained in the corps. The system of purchasing out the officers of the Engineers and of the Artillery with sums from a reserve fund to which they never had contributed was a most objectionable one, and had been condemned by a Committee who had gone very fully into the subject. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War would inform the House that they were going to put an end to this mode of purchasing out officers, and to do something towards carrying out the recommendations of the Committee on the subject.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, there was no intention of legislating with the view of precluding Members of Parliament from making application in favour of persons seeking employment in Government Offices, because of the recent Act removing their disabilities.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said he was unable to lay upon the table the Estimates and plans referred to by the hon. Gentleman, because, although the Estimate would not exceed £10,000, the plan had been materially altered. Colonel Gordon had left Constantinople, and the gentleman now in charge of the building was the British Consul at Constantinople; he believed the interests of economy would he best consulted by leaving the matter in his hands. Everything had been done to
 1290
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that as the Question affected the Treasury, perhaps the House would permit him to answer the hon. Member's Question. The attention of Her Majesty's Government had been drawn to the Return lately moved for by the hon. Member, and an inquiry had been made and was being continued into the causes which appeared to show, on the face of a Return the hon. Member referred to in his Question, what was certainly not in accordance with the common impression, that the taxation of Ireland was in a higher ratio than that of England. One cause probably that tended to that was that the basis of Schedule A in Ireland was notoriously lower than the basis of Schedule A in England.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that it was very likely that the right hon. Gentleman was not in Office when the last application on Mr. Goddard's behalf had been made. Mr. Goddard's services had extended over a period of fourteen years. He (Mr. Sheridan) should be perfectly satisfied if the right hon. Gentleman would read over Mr. Goddard's petition and take the matter into consideration. As the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) had intimated to him that he would refer to the matter presently, he (Mr. Sheridan) would not make a formal Motion.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  rose to call attention to the Petition of Mr. Samuel Aspinwall Goddard, merchant and gun-maker of Birmingham [presented 24th April], stating his claims for inventions and improvements in the construction of breech-loading cannon. The hon. Member said, that some years ago the Government had challenged the inventive power of the country to solve the problem as to having breech-loading cannon; and Mr. Goddard was one of the earliest to come forward, and he succeeded in making a breech-loading cannon. The weapon was handed over to the Select Committee on Ordnance, that they might test its powers. The Members of that Committee made various suggestions, and the result was that Mr. Goddard manufactured several other breech-loading cannon and sent them to the Government; and at last he invented a gun which was said by the Government and by the Select Committee to be as perfect a gun as could at that time be found. Mr. Goddard thought that having found out what was wanted he was in a position to command the attention of the Government, He offered to the Government that they
 1251 "This cannon was taken to Shoeburyness, General Cator, the president, and Colonel W. H. Pickering, the secretary, and other Members of the Select Committee attending, and that it was then and there loaded and fired 360 or 370 times successively without sponging or cleaning, and without any appliance whatever, not even the insertion of the wet sponge, as had been stipulated for. That these facts are in substance recorded in the Minutes of the Select Committee; that this cannon has met and satisfied the essential requirements of a breech-loading cannon; and that the qualities which it possesses are permanent and not transitory, and may be copied and extended to other cannon indefinitely. That General Cator, on the conclusion of the trial, declared that, the cannon worked well;' that neither he nor the other members of the Committee then present could see any fault in it, but that' all that be and the Committee could do was to commend it to the Government, which they would do.' That soon after this Report was sent in, petitioner was instructed by the War Department to get up a 32-pounder upon a similar construction, which was done, and the cannon was delivered at Woolwich, where it was proved, with three several charges of 18, 18, and 20 pounds of powder and ball, after which it was taken to Shoeburyness and loaded and fired many times, several times with 56 lb. oblong shot, without any obstruction arising and without exhibiting any defect. That this 32-pounder was mounted upon a carriage invented by petitioner, combining an inclined plane upon which the recoil took place, the force of which was retarded by strong india-rubber belts, which also drew it back into position, effecting the double object of preventing shock by recoil, and of placing the cannon in position, without the intervention of much, if any, manual labour, which plan of carriage, though it may not be brought literally into use, suggests valuable ideas to artillerists in Her Majesty's service, and these inventions have, as your petitioner believes, been to some extent applied. That Mr. Armstrong's cannon was accepted, and that of your petitioner put aside, the small one, which had been so successful, being placed in the Arsenal at Woolwich, where it remains at the present time. That after a large number of Armstrong cannon bad been manufactured, including 1,000 100-poundcrs, either finished or in process of manufacture, and a very large sum of money had been expended, and after they had proved defective in service in China or Japan, as was reported, Her Majesty's Secretary of War desired petitioner to go to Woolwich, and see if he could alter to his plan the 100-pounder Armstrong guns which were in preparation. That petitioner did go to Woolwich, and found that his breech-loading cannon, which had been lying at Woolwich, had been got out and put in order, and examined by the Select Committee of the Honourable Board of Ordnance, and your petitioner humbly represents that the request of the Minister of War to your petitioner
 1252 bouche 1253 "I, John Huggins, of Birmingham, machinist, at the request of Samuel Aspinwall Goddard, owner and proprietor of the breech-loading gun now lying at Woolwich Arsenal, and known by the name of the Church and Goddard gun, and of the inventions appertaining thereto, went to Woolwich to inspect the 64-pounder wedge-gun, permission having been obtained for that purpose, in order to ascertain in what respect, if any, it f embraced the inventions comprised in the said Church and Goddard gun, and having carefully examined the said 64-poundcr wedge-gun, make the following report, viz.:—1. I find that the sliding  bouche bouche bouche. bouche 1254
 MR. CHILDERS , while admitting that the subject was a difficult one, and while not blaming the Government, thought at the same time that it was very unfortunate the War Department had not come to a decision in reference to the recommendations of the Committee to which the hon. and gallant General (General Dunne) had just referred. On the other question, nothing could be worse than the system under which the officers of non-purchase corps were now retired. A fixed sum was provided, out of which officers of a certain standing might or might not, according to their rank, receive annuities of £600 or £450 a year; but it was a farce to call this a system of retirement. The Committee recommended that there should be a fixed scale according to length of service, and that officers should be allowed to compound for the payments to
 1279
 MR. CHILDERS : That is distinctly my wish.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that looking
 1270
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that the right hon. Gentleman would give him
 1274
 MR. O'BEIRNE  expressed his dissatisfaction with such an arrangement.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been directed to the inequality of taxation between Great Britain and Ireland shown by Return No. 345, printed by Order of this House on the 22nd June last, by which it appears that the amount of Revenue for each £100 of assessed Property and Income Tax paid by Great Britain in the year 1854 was £23 18 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d.
 MR. CANDLISH  asked whether the right hon. Gentleman would put down the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill as the first Order of the Day for that evening, it having been fixed for the Morning Sitting? ["No, no!"] That Bill and the Irish Registration Bill must, he presumed, become law before the close of this Session, the Government having pledged themselves to carry them. The Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill might fairly take precedence that evening of the Cattle Market Bill. ["No, no!"]
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, in the absence of his hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Greville) he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he is aware that the large and commodious Barracks at Mullingar hare for some time been unoccupied by a Regiment of the Line, and that at the present moment there are only two Companies quartered there; and whether, considering the central situation of Mullingar Barracks, on a line of Railways which connects it with the North and South, as well as the East and West of Ireland, he does not think it desirable that as large a force should be kept there now as formerly?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 COLONEL NORTH  rose to move an humble Address to Her Majesty—
 "That She will be graciously pleased to direct that an Institution shall be established to receive and educate the Orphan Daughters of Non-commissioned Officers and Soldiers of our Army." "In the selection of children preference shall be given in general—first, to orphans; secondly, to those whose fathers have been killed or have died on foreign service; thirdly, to those who have lost their mothers and whose fathers are absent on service abroad; fourthly, to those whose fathers are ordered on foreign service, or whose parents have other children." 1262 "Whereas, from the extent of our army and the great proportion thereof usually employed on foreign service, it is become highly expedient to make a further provision for the maintenance and education of distressed children of non-commissioned officers and soldiers belonging to our regular forces, our will and pleasure is that the number to be admitted into our said asylums shall be extended to 792 boys and 348 girls, making in the whole 1,140 children." "By his Royal Highness the Prince Regent of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, our will and pleasure is, in the name and on behalf of His Majesty, that the number to be admitted into the said asylum shall be extended to 800 boys and 400 girls, making in all 1,200 children, exclusive of the infant establishment in the Isle of Wight." "About 350 children were now received within the walls of the asylum; while at a former period, when there was also a similar establishment at Southampton, it had accommodated 1,222. It had, however, been found, both here and at Greenwich, that the experiment of educating a large number of girls together had proved a complete failure, so far as regarded their future course of life. The experiment had consequently been abandoned, and he should feel great hesitation in renewing it. With regard to boys, the case was different."—(3  Hansard 1263
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If Her Majesty's Government will take into favourable consideration the question whether the time is arrived when the very heavy sentences passed on Warren and Costello, the only two persons of the crew of the  Jackmell
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  complained of the consolidation of barrack districts, thereby imposing additional duties on barrack masters for which they were inadequately paid.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, that having given way to the Government on a former occasion on being told that he should have an opportunity of bringing this subject forward, he found that the pledge given by the Government had been fulfilled by his Motion being placed thirty-ninth on the Orders of the Day. Finding he should be out of Order in now bringing forward his Motion, he wished to ask the Solicitor General in the absence of the Attorney General, Whether it was his intention to prosecute those who had been guilty of bribery and other malpractices at the last Bristol election?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  desired to remind the House that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had declared that all business connected with the question of Reform would be the first to be wound up. The Irish Registration Bill was not only connected with Reform, but its immediate passing was a necessity. There could, therefore, be no reason why it should not have precedence of the Cattle Market Bill. ["No, no!"] He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would adhere to the declarations which he had made, and either proceed with Reform measures or assign some intelligible reasons for deviating from that course.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, not as argument, but as a matter of fact, he wished to ask, If it was true that if there was no cattle plague in Sweden and Denmark, the "most favoured nation" clause applied?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, if the restrictions were not necessary for sanitary purposes, he understood the noble Lord to say the "most favoured nation" clause would apply. Therefore, if there was no cattle plague in Sweden and Denmark, those countries had a right to demand that that clause should he carried into effect.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether there has been any recent Correspondence between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of the United States on the question of naturalization and expatriation; and, if so, whether he is willing to lay such Correspondence upon the Table of the House?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, Whether the Board of Works are going to pull down the public houses on the eastern side of Park Lane, since the proposal to widen the Lane through Hamilton Place has been rejected?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether notices will be served during the autumn on the owners of houses in Holywell Street, and also on the owners of houses in the line of a new street from the Strand to Lincoln's Inn Fields, on the west side of proposed New Law Courts, in order that a Bill may be brought
 1282
 MR. TITE  said, in reply, that in 1864 an application, which was refused, was
 1284
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Is it the fact that Michael O'Hanlon, formerly a resident in Belfast, and who has a wife and four children totally dependent for their support on his earnings as a working gardener, had been nearly eighteen months in prison; and, if so, if any reason can be assigned for not bringing him to trial or admiting him to bail?
 SIR JOHN GRAY  rose to call attention to the alterations recently made in the Second, Third, and Fourth Lessons issued to the Schools under the charge of the Board of National Education, Ireland; and to move for the Correspondence and Minutes of Evidence of the Proceedings in reference thereto. The hon. Member said it would be in the recollection of the House that at the close of last Session, when the Education Estimates were before the House, he raised a discussion with reference to primary education in Ireland; and he then showed conclusively that the mixed system of education was a mere myth, and the case he had on that occasion to bring under their notice afforded a remarkable illustration of the curious effect of attempting to prop up a rotten system, and of the false position that fraudulent system enforced the Commissioners to take. The illustrative case he had to adduce occurred in the city of Kilkenny, which he had the honour to represent. The Rev. Mr. Porter, a Presbyterian minister, casually visited the model school in that city, and complained that most improper passages were admitted to the lesson books and sanctioned by the Board. The first passage pointed out as improper, was a portion of the most exquisitely beautiful of the national ballads composed by the late Samuel Lover. That ballad,  The Angel's Whisper "Her beads while she numbered, The baby still slumbered, And smil'd in her face as she bended her knee: 'Oh! bless'd be that warning, My child, thy sleep adorning, For I know that the Angels are whispering with thee. "'And while they are keeping Bright watch o'er thy sleeping, Oh! pray to them softly, my baby, with me, And say thou would'st rather They'd watch o'er thy father For I know that the Angels are whispering with thee.'" 1277
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reference to a Question put to him by the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. Sheridan) at an early part of the day, he had only to say that Mr. Goddard's name was a long time before the War Office. If the hon. Member would communicate with him (Sir
 1278
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had no objection to accept the suggestion.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply to the observations of the hon. and gallant Member (General Dunne), with reference to the reserve fund, said, that as the change involved in the Report of the Committee was a very important one he thought the best course to adopt, looking to the interests of the army was to consider it during the Recess. He had therefore applied to the Treasury and had obtained their sanction to deal with the reserve fund exactly as heretofore up to the time when the Estimates would be introduced nest year. By that time the Government would have made up their minds as to the course which they would be prepared to lake in reference to the fund. As to the observations which had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), he could only repeat what he had already stated, that it would be absolutely necessary before long to have a new plan of retirement for the non-purchase corps. The questions involved, however, were very complicated and difficult, and it was far more important that any scheme which was devised should be well done than that it should be done quickly. He would assure his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers) (hat no premature action would be taken upon the subject to which he referred, and that nothing would be done without the sanction of Parliament. He hoped the House would he content with his assurance that during the Recess he should give further consider-
 1280
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Well, that was pretty much the same thing. Now, he refused to believe that anyone in the War Office could be so base and disloyal as to publish newspaper attacks upon the Department with which he was connected. He would not deny that he had heard such statements before, that he had been told
 1272 1273
 SIR. JOHN PAKINGTON  said, it was impossible for him to remain silent after what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite (Lord Elcho). This conversation had been commenced by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Harwich (Colonel Jervis), and he (Sir John Pakington) presumed that he was not aware he was acting in violation of the rules of the House, or the Speaker would have interrupted him when he was making his statement. It struck him, however, that his hon. and gallant Friend was not acting in accordance with their usual practice in the course he had taken. His hon. and gallant Friend commenced his observations by referring to a speech of his (Sir John Pakington's), made in that House more than a week ago, and then, passing on to a speech made by himself in reply, arrived at the comfortable conclusion that he (Colonel Jervis) was right, and he (Sir John Pakington) was wrong. His hon. and gallant Friend distinctly stated, in reference to the Papers laid before the House, that the Government had turned round upon Sir Henry Storks, and displayed a desire to get rid of him.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had noticed that in strong language. He said such a statement was wild, unfounded, and unjustifiable. He did not shrink from one of these words, but was rather disposed to reiterate them. The statement was utterly unfounded. He repeated that the most harmonious feeling existed between him and Sir Henry Storks, and he should be base indeed if he had acted in any way inconsistent with that respectful feeling which he had ever evinced towards that
 1271 Saturday Review Saturday Review
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he fully appreciated the excellent motives which induced the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel North) to make the present proposal; but he appeared to have forgotten the establishment at Wandsworth, in full operation under the Patriotic Fund Commissioners. Past experience threw doubts on the success of such experiments; but he had reason to suppose that the establishment at Hampstead was successful, and he believed also that the one at Wandsworth would prove successful. The Duke of York's School, which was removed to Southampton, was afterwards broken up, in consequence of the girls from it turning out badly; and they had similar experience in reference to a similar establishment in Ireland. In the establishment at Wandsworth 300 orphan daughters of soldiers and sailors were carefully brought up. Of course, the children of those engaged in the Crimean War had the first chance of admission; but their number was being rapidly diminished by the course of time, and he thought that the House, before acceding to the present Motion, had better wait to see whether the hopes entertained with regard to the two establishments he had just mentioned were confirmed before proceeding to further experiments.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  asked the hon. Member how long it was since Mr. Goddard's claim had been preferred at the War Department.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  urged the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir John Pakington), in justice to his Department as well as to himself, to accede to the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Jervis), in order that the country might know what were really his views upon the matter at issue.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE , in reply, said, the Board of Trade had received no recent communication on this subject. Fires were, no doubt, occasionally caused by sparks from locomotives, and in dry weather, such as that which now prevails, the danger was, of course, much increased. Still, if negligence could be proved against a company, it was liable for damages. It had been suggested that wire caps should be used for the funnels, such as are seen on Italian railways; but these were found materially to impede the draught, and besides had not proved effectually preventive. There was no law prohibiting the use of coals, and the Board of Trade was also powerless in the matter; the objection to the substitution of coke consisted in its much heavier cost. Sparks, like smoke, were formed of particles of imperfectly consumed fuel, and a clause in the Railway Regulation Bill of this Session, which, provided for a more perfect consumption of smoke, would, he hoped, tend to prevent the mischief of which his hon. Friend complained.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he thought the Patriotic Fund had the best title to State assistance, and the Commissioners would be glad to extend their operations if possible.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House, a copy of the Despatch of Mr. Cardwell to the Governor of Vancouver's Island, dated 11th October, 1865, No. 57, transmitting Copy of Correspondence with the Treasury and the Post Office relating to the postal communication between that Colony and Great Britain?
 MR. LOWE  proposed to insert the words ''by the Report of an Election Committee or by the report of a judge."
 MR. AYRTON  said, he objected to the clause altogether, on the ground that it proposed to impose a penalty upon persons who had been indemnified under a former Act.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that all they had in view was to prevent the employment by candidates of agents who were notorious bribers. He should therefore cordially support the clause and the Amendment.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he would beg to move the insertion of words making it a misdemeanour for any agent who had been adjudged guilty of bribery to hire himself as an agent or canvasser. Mr. James Lowther
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  objected to the Amendment, on the ground that it would lead to the punishment of a man twice for a single offence. He would be imprisoned in the first instance, and then because he accepted a second office he would be imprisoned again, though be had committed no new offence.
 MR. GORST  said, he must contend that the man would have committed a second offence; he would have engaged himself
 1370
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  said, that in his opinion the man who employed a corrupt agent stood in about the same relation to that corrupt agent as the receiver did to the thief. He thought, therefore, that the penalty of making such a man's election void was not commensurate with the offence. He therefore proposed to move to add the words at the end of the clause—"And he shall be incapable of being elected to and of sitting in the House of Commons during the three years next after such trial."
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, that it was quite possible a candidate might get into the hands of a corrupt agent without knowing it. In the case of a young man coming into Parliament for the first time this might easily occur. Would it not be too hard to brand such a man with the disgrace which the noble Lord's Amendment would inflict upon him?
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the Amendment would only apply to a candidate who knowingly employed a corrupt agent.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he must, with great respect to the noble Viscount, say that the Amendment appeared to him to be nonsense. The word "trial" referred to the trial in the case of the corrupt agent who had been convicted of corruption within seven years previously to the Election which under the clause would be void. If the words proposed by the noble Viscount were added to the clause, the punishment of the candidate might commence long before he had committed the offence.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought the noble Lord had mistaken the object of the clause.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he did not think the Amendment applicable to the clause. In his opinion, making the
 1371
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that if at this period of the Session hon. Members persevered in moving Amendments the result would be that the Bill would be amended off the face of creation.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he felt that a person who knowingly employed an agent who had been convicted of corrupt practices ought to be subjected to this penalty at least.
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he did not think it would be too great a punishment to inflict upon a man who prostituted the political rights of the country by bribery to disqualify him from sitting in the House of Commons for ever.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that he wished to ask the hon. Member for York (Mr. Lowther) whether he would bring up a clause on the Report embodying the views which he sought to carry into effect in the Amendment which had shortly before been negatived?
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he intended to do so. Some hon. Members had, he believed, voted against his Amendment in ignorance of the real question at issue.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that the real question for the Committee to decide was whether they meant to pass the Bill before them this year or not. The Bill was one of great importance, and the Government, he thought, had very fairly done their duty in pushing it forward.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government would postpone the prorogation, if necessary, in order to carry the Bill. The feeling of the House was evidently strongly in its favour.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the fact that the feeling of the House was in favour was no argument against hon. Members exercising a discretion in dealing with it.
 MR. AYRTON  asked for some explanation of the clause. He did not object to all the penalties being placed upon those who had been found guilty; but he should
 1372
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the clause was intended to include persons other than the Petitioner and respondent, but no doubt there was difficulty in what was pointed out, and to meet it he should propose to amend the clause so that the penalties should only be inflicted upon persons, other than candidates, who should have been found guilty of bribery in any proceeding at law.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he thought that what was intended was that the penalty of disqualification should follow a report of the Judge, and should not apply only to those who had been convicted upon a trial. When the inquiry had been conducted by a Judge, who would, of course, be aware of the penalty imposed by the clause, might it not be presumed that he had taken all the necessary steps for arriving at a knowledge of a man's guilt?
 MR. NEATE  said, he hoped that the original words would be adhered to.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the difficulty was inflicting a penalty upon a person who might possibly not be present; but he thought that there would be no hardship in placing a penalty upon a person who had been reported guilty after he had had an opportunity of being heard. He would, therefore, propose that the clause should be amended by inserting the words, "in any proceeding in which, after notice of the charge, he has had an opportunity of being heard."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to know what would be the position of an unfortunate candidate with regard to expenses, if the inquiry before the Judge was to be hung up while notice was being given to all the persons-implicated, as well as during the trial of all these collateral issues. Such a delay would cause a very ugly addition to the candidate's expenditure.
 MR. POWELL  said, he hoped that words would be introduced to ensure parties accused a fair hearing.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, that the worst delinquents could run away, and no notice could be given to them. They would thus escape the penalty.
 Mr. AYRTON'S  Amendment  withdrawn agreed to
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought they had better in this Bill, and at this period of the Session, confine themselves to Parliamentary Elections. No doubt at some future period there must be an inquiry in reference to municipal Elections.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that his proposition was simply that a person convicted of bribery at a Parliamentary Election should be disqualified from voting at future municipal as well as Parliamentary Elections.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he feared that if they accepted the Amendment they would not be allowed to stop there, they would have to go further, and that would only be entering upon a sea of troubles, and they would run great risk of foundering in their legislation. He believed, however, that they would soon have to enter upon the question of bribery at municipal Elections.
 MR. J. GOLDSMID  said, that the clause proposed that in a certain event the returning officer should pay to the Member double the damages which he had sustained. This seemed to be placing a money value upon the position of a Member of Parliament, and he should move that instead of these words there should be others enacting that the returning officer should be liable to a penalty not exceeding £500.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the clause as proposed was an exact copy of the 123rd clause of the 11th and 12th Vic, c. 98, which had been found in-applicable.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the clause would make the punishment for offences under the Bill different in Ireland and Scotland
 1374
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he concurred in thinking that the clause required consideration.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the clauses of the Acts proposed to be repealed were not penal clauses, but merely those which regulated the mode of trial of the Petitions. If he were mistaken on the point he would bring up a clause upon the Report which would settle the question.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Bill would be valuable as an experiment, even if its provisions were not extended to Ireland and Scotland, although he did not mean to say that he had given up the idea of introducing a clause to extend, if possible, the provisions of the Bill to Ireland and Scotland.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was one of those who had originally contended that they would be placed in a position of great difficulty with regard to this Bill if its provisions were not extended to Ireland and Scotland, but he thought that the question had assumed a new light in consequence of the announcement of Her Majesty's Government that the operation of the Bill was only to endure for a limited period; although he did not mean to say that if Her Majesty's Government could see their way to effect such an extension without loss of time it would not be desirable that the experiment might be equally and simultaneously tried in Ireland and Scotland, as well as in this country, or that it would be well to preserve the jurisdiction of this House in the case of Election Petitions from Ireland and Scotland, and to extinguish it as regarded this country. Under these circumstances he should not press the Government upon the point.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he must press upon the Government the importance of making the law upon the point apply to the three countries alike.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, if he did not bring up a satisfactory clause upon the Report the right hon. Gentleman would have the opportunity of doing so himself.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  proposed to amend the clause by inserting the words "as far as regards Elections and Petitions in respect of constituencies in England and Wales."
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to propose a new clause providing for the payment of additional Judges and remuneration of Judges appointed under this Act.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he would remind the House that a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the constitution of our Courts of Judicature. That Commission had been sitting for about a twelvemonth, and would shortly, it was believed, propose some very great changes. He trusted, therefore, that these new appointments would be made subject to any decision at which the House might arrive after seeing the Report. If the right hon. Gentleman would deal with that question, he would leave it in his hands; if not, he should propose a clause himself on bringing up the Report.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he trusted that the Government would assent to the following Amendment to the new clause:—Line 1, before "The," insert—
 "No additional Judge shall be appointed under this Act until fourteen days after all the Elections Petitions presented to the Court of Common Pleas respecting the first Elections to the Parliament convened on the dissolution of the present Parliament shall be at issue."
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the matter referred to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock had been under the consideration of the Government, and there was at present a clear understanding with the Lord Chancellor that the services of the new Judges should be at the disposal of the country. If the right hon. Gentleman brought forward a clause, it should of course receive attentive consideration. As regarded the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) he could only say that he should give it the strongest opposition in his power, because it was in reality an attempt to upset the whole
 1376
 MR. MONK  said, he would propose to strike out the words in Mr. Disraeli's clause providing that the Judges selected for the trial of Election Petitions should receive £500 a year in addition to their ordinary salary. He should be sorry if the Judges were not adequately remunerated for the services which they rendered to the country, but he could see no reason why this additional sum should be paid, more especially as the work of the existing Judges would be lightened by the assistance which the new Judges would render them when not engaged on the trial of Election Petitions.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he apprehended a good deal of canvassing among the Judges for this £500 a year.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it was desirable to induce the old Judges, if he might use that epithet, to give up their time to the performance of these duties, duties which, it must be remembered, they never expected at the time of their appointments to be called on to perform. The performance of those duties involved considerable inconvenience. The Judges employed in them would, for instance, be separated for some time from their families, and have to reside occasionally in small inns, which, to say the least of it, were not replete with the comforts and advantages to which they were accustomed. It was desirable, if it could be managed, that the new Judges should be engaged at first on the ordinary judicial duties, and that the trial of these Petitions should be carried on by those who had been for some time on the Bench. It was necessary to make the proposal as agreeable as possible, and as the clause had been carefully considered he trusted that it would be adopted in its entirety.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was extremely
 1377
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he was of opinion that if they were to assent to the increase of pay to the Judges in question, they ought to extend that increase to all the Judges of the Superior Courts.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must ask the Committee to bear in mind the difficulties under which the Bill had been brought in and pressed to its present position. The original objections of the Judges themselves, and the fact that those objections had never been in express terms withdrawn, should not be forgotten. These objections were those of gentlemen who had been appointed to do a certain work, and who had not accepted office on the understanding that this new work should be thrust upon them. Considering, then, that this work would be by far the most unpleasant the Judges, future as well as present, would have to do, he recommended the Committee to consider the question as men of the world, and make the Bill as little unpalatable as possible. Although the Judges themselves had been no parties to any such arrangement as that proposed, he was bound to remind the Committee that the Bill had hitherto been considered on the understanding that it should not be in the nature of an imposition on the Judges. And it would be admitted on all hands that the Judges would have a most onerous duty to discharge in laying down the course of procedure under the Act. All
 1378
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had heard with the greatest pleasure that the proposal under consideration had been made on the sole authority of the Government; it would have been extremely painful to him to think the Judges had been consulted on the subject and had entered into a compromise. He could not agree that the new duties imposed by the Bill would be the most disagreeable the Judge could undertake; it would be infinitely more disagreeable to him to try a man for his life. The question, however, was whether the passing of this provision would tend to elevate or derogate from the position of the Judges. It was true additional duties had been imposed on the Bench, but additional Judges would be appointed to share their work. He had never before heard the principle advocated that Judges should be offered additional payment to induce them to undertake work Parliament thought it right the Bench should discharge. If, then, it were resolved that the Judges should have this additional payment, he feared the result would be greatly to disparage the high estimation in which the Judges were held by the country. The Committee should be slow to create a precedent of this nature; for his part he would prefer voting £500 a year to each of the Judges unconditionally rather than accept the proposition made.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought the offer of £500 would make it impossible for the Judges to accept these new duties. The Judges' objection was not on account of the work, but for fear the new duty would destroy the dignity and authority of the Courts in other cases. As the objection of the Judges as stated in the letter of the Lord Chief Justice had not been withdrawn, this proposal of the additional £500 a year would seem like saying, "We will bribe you with £500 a year to withdraw your objection."
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, the House had taken the matter out of the hands of the Judges by deciding, notwithstanding the objections urged by the Lord Chief
 1379
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, his hon. Friend who had just sat down had founded his allegiance to the proposal before the House upon the doctrine that when additional duties were imposed on servants of the Crown additional remuneration should be given, and very generally was given. He was sorry to be obliged to differ entirely from his hon. Friend, both as to principle and as to fact. In the first place, he thought that if public servants were already fully occupied, additional duties ought not to be imposed upon them. That was the principle upon which the House had proceeded in appointing additional Judges. It would be very had policy to accept the principle contended for, because you could not have more than an average amount of service; and if you said, "We will give them more work and a higher salary," the result would generally be that the higher salary would be received, but the additional work would not be done. The homely rule of "a fair day's pay for a fair day's work" was the sound one. He was bound to say likewise that, as far as his experience went, it was not the rule of the public service, when new duties were imposed, to cap those new duties by new salaries. He did not hesitate to say that this was a principle you could apply; and in this case it would be irrelevant, because the difficulty had been met by an increase in the number of Judges. He must say that, whatever might happen with respect to this clause, no suspicion would be entertained within the walls of Parliament that the granting or the withholding of the proposed £500 a year would in any way influence the conduct of the Judges. But outside it might be supposed that the House of Commons had endeavoured to meet the objections of those learned personages by voting an addition of £500 to the salaries of the Judges who had to perform the duties prescribed by this Bill. He concurred with his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell) that if the salaries of the Judges were thought to be insufficient, they ought to be considered generally, and a uniform increase ought to be made.
 MR. GORST  said, he would beg to remind the Committee that not only new duties but more arduous were to be imposed. As in this country position was in some degree estimated by amount of salary, this addition of £500 to the salaries of the Judges would, to some extent, elevate them in dignity.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not concur with the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken—that the position of Judges was to be elevated by £500 a year. If the Judges would not be fit to try those cases unless they got another £500 a year, he doubted very much that they would be fit to do so at all. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford that if the Judges were underpaid, there ought to be an increase in their salaries for the discharge of their duties generally; but he considered that, as three new Judges were to be appointed, the work of the Judicial Bench would not be increased by this new jurisdiction.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  proposed the following new clause:—
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to know who was to present these petitions. Was it to be the Government Whip?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. Gentleman might undertake the duty himself.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he wished to express his acknowledgments to the Government for the great improvement which had been effected in the Bill.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  proposed a new clause—
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  proposed, as an Amendment, an addition to prevent persons, Members of this House from practising.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the object of the clause was to preserve the status of the class known as Parliamentary agents, who may be neither barristers nor attorneys.
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he had no great admiration for the Bill; but if it was to be tried, the experiment should he fairly made. It would be a singular example of mongrel legislation if they were to give this jurisdiction to the ordinary tribunals, and to allow audience to persons who were not now at liberty to practise there.
 MR. MAGUIRE  proposed to insert after the words "agents" the words "or counsel," in order to do an act of justice to the bar of Ireland.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, the Irish bar were entitled either to some compensation—[ Laughter
 MR. LOWE  said he thought it might tend to prevent inconvenience to omit the words "until the dissolution of next Parliament," and so fix the definite period of three years for the duration of the Bill. He moved an Amendment to that effect.
 MR. BOUVERIE  proposed to omit "three years" and insert "two years."
 SIR WILLIAM HUTT  proposed, after Clause 53, to insert the following clause—
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Resolution to which the right hon. Baronet referred was passed in the 17th century; and at that time there was very good reason for passing such a Resolution, because the House of Lords had then the power and privilege of taxing themselves. Their interference with the rights of the House of Commons could not then be justified. But time which brought so many changes had brought a considerable change in the position of the House of Peers in regard to
 1383 1384
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he thought the pith of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the First Minister of the Crown) was contained in the last sentence. He should be very glad to persuade his right hon. Friend that there was no advan-
 1385
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the Resolution had hitherto been enforced by Election Committees, as the law of the House, though not the law of the land. By the law of the land Peers could interfere as well as any other individuals. The practice of that House had always been to vindicate their privileges by striking out the votes of Peers at an election, but that power they had parted with by placing their jurisdiction in the hands of an independent tribunal, which would have no power to strike out such votes. He might observe with reference to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the First Lord of the Treasury) that Peers had always exercised the right of voting at and taking part in the elections for the Universities. Had the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Gateshead (Sir William Hutt) proposed a clause forbidding Peers taking part in elections—without subjecting them to punishment as being guilty of a misdemeanour—it would have been carried.
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, if it should be the wish of the House to pass
 1386
 MR. EYKYN  said, that these votes had invariably been rejected by Revising Barristers.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he believed that the Revising Barristers had always expunged the names of Peers from the lists of voters.
 MR. HADFIELD  supported the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would suggest that the right hon. Gentleman (Sir William Hutt) should bring up the clause in a different form to meet the objection that had been made. He believed the only way to prevent the interference of Peers in elections was to enact that all elections compassed by the unconstitutional interference of Peers should be declared void. If the right hon. Gentleman would bring up a clause to that effect it would find a good deal of support in the Committee. He was rather surprised to hear it asserted that Peers might interfere in elections, and propose and vote for candidates, for if that were so it would go far to demonstrate that there was no necessity for the House of Lords.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, he apprehended that Peers had not a right to vote for Members of Parliament. It was so stated by Lord Camden, and it was not a subject on which doubt should be entertained.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought that the punishment attached by this measure to acts of bribery would be far too heavy for the offence to which the hon. Gentleman's clause referred.
 MR. KARSLAKE  opposed the clause.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that though not going to the full extent of the clause, he thought that something clear and definite should be laid down with reference to such expenses.
 MR. MONK  asked when the Bill would be again proceeded with?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he proposed to place it on the Paper for To-morrow, but would be able more definitely to inform hon. Members on the subject later in the evening.
 ADMIRAL SEYMOUR  said, he wished to correct the statement that old pensioners when once they had left the Hospital could not return to it. They could return at any time; they had nothing to do but to go to Somerset House and relinquish their pensions and they would be received at once. As to their not being received unless they were "infirm and helpless," if they were that when first admitted, when they returned some years afterwards they were not likely to have become sound again. It had been his duty during the last two years to investigate the claims of these poor fellows, and a very painful duty it was.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that nothing could be more objectionable than giving the Board the power of taxing the country.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, the Amendment would deprive the Board of a power it possessed already. The clause did not design so much to invest the Board with new power as to give it the means of enforcing the power it was already in-trusted with. If the guardians failed to appoint any necessary officer the Board could apply for a  mandamus 1422
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, that at Leicester the duties of chaplain were duly performed by voluntary officers; and the question was whether in such a case the Board should have the power of appointing an officer who must be paid?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the Board had the power already, although they had been compelled to resort to it in only one instance, in which the guardians refused to appoint a chaplain; and even the language of the proposed Amendment would leave the Board judges of the necessity just as much as they were now.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, these remarks seemed to show that it was unnecessary that the clause should apply to chaplains at all, although there might be strong arguments for passing it as regarded other officers, such as schoolmaster, schoolmistress, medical officers, and nurses. The office of chaplain was of a different nature, and it would have been well to have raised the question separately. On the Report he should propose to define the offices to which the clause applied.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, so far from there being no difficulty with regard to the appointment of chaplains, it happened there was at present a London case before the Board. A chaplain was absolutely necessary, and but for the power already possessed by the Board in London the case could not be dealt with.
 MR. SYNAN  said, he did not see why the discretion sought should not be vested in the Commissioners, and why they should be under the necessity of applying for a  mandamus
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he wondered that gentlemen could be got to undertake the duties of guardians if all the discretionary power was to be exercised by the Board.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, there was a workhouse in Ireland in which, though there was only one Protestant pauper inmate, a Protestant chaplain attended, and was paid a salary.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not require the example of Ireland. After the description given of that country by a distinguished Member of the House of Commons, and after what they had heard of it that night from an Irish Gentleman, he had no desire to see England assimilated to Ireland. He remembered to have heard a Chief Secretary for Ireland state that the
 1423
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought the Secretary to the Poor Law Board ought to give the Committee some information as to whether the question of the appointment of chaplains was really involved in this clause.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, it was agreed that the appointment of paid nurses was desirable in country workhouses. He thought, also, that where the great majority of the inmates of a workhouse were of one religious persuasion, a chaplain of that persuasion ought to be appointed to attend them and be paid for the discharge of that duty. There was a Liverpool workhouse in which, he believed, the great majority were Roman Catholics, and a Roman Catholic chaplain was paid £300 a year for attending that institution. If the majority of the inmates of a workhouse were members of the Established Church, and the guardians should refuse to appoint a chaplain for them, he believed it would be the feeling of the House that the Poor Law Board ought to have the right to interfere, in order that the inmates might be provided with the consolations which the visit of a clergyman of the Established Church would afford them.
 MR. KINNAIRD  asked whether red tapeism was to step in where religious consolation was afforded by voluntary efforts?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : In such a case the Poor Law Board would not for a moment think of interfering.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that propositions to alter our Poor Law arrangements proceeded year after year from the permanent staff of the Poor Law Board.
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, that in an omnibus Bill like the one now before the Committee, one found it difficult to discover in which of the clauses the important principle of the measure was really contained.
 COLONEL W. STUART  then proposed at the end of the clause to add these words—"Provided always, That nothing herein contained shall relate to the appointment of chaplains."
 MR. REARDEN  stated that he had by mistake given his vote in the last division in the opposite way to that which he intended, and he was proceeding to explain how the mistake occurred, when—
 THE CHAIRMAN  interposing, informed him that the rule of the House was that if an hon. Member went into a Lobby his vote was counted with that Lobby. The hon. Member might set himself right by stating that he had made a mistake, but beyond that the House could not enter into the consideration of the matter.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he would divide the Committee against the clause, which contained a principle against which the country was now in arms—namely, a great increase of the rates. The House had of late years been too ready in increasing the rates. When a question of increasing the general taxation was raised the House took alarm, but when the local rates were concerned the case was quite different. When hon. Gentlemen went to the elections he believed they would be asked whether they had voted for or against clauses in Bills largely increasing the rates.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the country objected to giving the Central Board power over the rates, because the rate-payers had not the opportunity locally of being heard on the subject. He should oppose the clause.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that the grand principle of improvement in Poor Law administration was not to strengthen the power of the guardians but of the Poor Law Board. The guardians frequently refused to perform their obvious local duties, to the injury of the
 1425
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, as he did not wish to see a national poor rate, he should vote against this clause, because local administration was the only ground on which a national rate could be resisted. Every step they were taking in setting up and strengthening a central administration was breaking down the local rate. What had occurred this Session? There had been Motion after Motion to bring different species of property into assessment which now paid nothing, and how much longer would the House be able to resist these Motions if the pressure of local burdens went on every day increasing? This clause authorized medical men to correspond with the Poor Law Board in London, but not through the guardians. A wholly independent management would thus be set up. After a very short time he believed the new system would break down, and then the poor would be worse cared for by the central authority in London than by the local Board of Guardians.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he should support the clause on the ground of economy, because there was no economy like employing properly-qualified and properly-paid persons. The system of employing pauper nurses and pauper assistants had let to great abuses and great peculation.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, the hon. Gentleman had entered upon a very large question, and had brought forward matters which required much more extensive discussion than could be given to them that night. He had not been aware from the Notice on the Paper that the hon. Gentleman meant to do more than ask a Question. Had he known that it was intended to impugn the statements he made on a former occasion, he would have been fully prepared to vindicate them. The facts and figures he had then stated had been before the country for a considerable time; and on no one
 1417 1418
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had heard that considerable objection was entertained on the part of several Members to going forward with the Indian Bills to-morrow. He mentioned this matter in order that the Government might not be unprepared for objection.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the House had not yet been told whether the recommendations of the Admiralty Committee had received the sanction of the Board. As far as the general tenor of those recommendations went, he was prepared at the proper time to give them a general support, because they were framed in a liberal and kindly spirit towards the infirm and aged seaman. But many parts of those recommendations would require careful consideration, and among other important matters very large questions of a financial character would present themselves. One point which he had before brought under the notice of the House he would venture to recall to their attention now. There were in the North of England a certain number of the survivors of those men who formerly paid 6 d
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would withdraw his Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that in rising to move that the House should adjourn to Monday, he would take the opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the very able and lucid Report which had been presented to it by the Committee on Greenwich Hospital, though it was certainly not his intention to criticize one of the cleverest and most interesting documents which had ever been laid before Parliament. The fact of such a Report having appeared was a justification for inquiring fully into the origin of Greenwich Hospital, and how the intentions of the founders had been carried out.
 1388 "Whereas, the Seamen of this Kingdom have for a long Time distinguished themselves throughout the World by their Industry and Skilfulness in their Employments, and by their Courage and Constancy manifested in Engagements for the Defence and Honour of their Native Country; and for an Encouragement to continue this their ancient Reputation and to invite greater Numbers of His Majesty's Subjects to betake themselves to the Sea, it is fit and reasonable that some competent Provision should be made, that Seamen who by Age, Wounds, or other Accidents shall become disabled for future Service at Sea, and shall not be in a condition to maintain themselves comfortably, may not fall under Hardships and Miseries, may be supported at the public Charge, and that the Children of such disabled Seamen, and also the Widows and Children of such Seamen as shall happen to be slain, killed, or drowned in Sea Service, may in some reasonable Manner be provided for and educated. And also the Widows of such Seamen, Watermen, Fishermen, Lightermen, Bargemen, Keelmen, and Sea-faring Men, who shall be slain, killed, or drowned in the Sea Service, and the Children of such Seamen, Watermen, Fishermen, Lightermen, Bargemen, Keelmen, or Sea-faring Men so slain, killed, or drowned, and not of Ability to maintain or provide comfortably for themselves, shall be received into the said Hospital, and there be provided for."—[7 &c 8  Will 1389 "In the year 1814 there were 2,710 pensioners in the institution. In 1849 the authorized number of in-pensioners being 2,642, there were but three vacancies in the Hospital. At that time the, admissions into Greenwich Hospital were regulated by the following Admiralty Memorandum of the 1st of January, 1852:—'1st. Out-pensioners for life, having served ten years and upwards, and who, on account of age or infirmity, are unable to work. 2d. Out-pensioners for life, with less than ten years' service, who are rendered totally incapable, by reason of wounds, hurts, injuries, or sickness received in and by the service, of assisting in any way to support themselves, reference being had to their age. Men who are not pensioners:—1st. No man shall be considered eligible for admission with less than ten years' service, with a good character. 2d. Unless he has been maimed or disabled by wounds in the service.'" "That no man be deemed eligible for such admission who does not fall under one of the following descriptions:—Description (A). Seamen and marines, whether in the Royal Navy or the merchant service, who from wounds received in fight, or from bodily injury by accident while engaged in the service of the Crown, or from ill-health contracted in the service of the Crown, and not from want of proper care on their part, are in need of the medical or surgical treatment provided by the Hospital. Description (B). Seamen and marines entitled to an out-pension of not less than £9, who, through age, imbecility, or disease, have become incapable of maintaining themselves, and proper objects for the medical and surgical assistance provided by the Hospital. Description (C). Seamen and marines, of good character, by age unfit for further service at sea, who shall have served in the Royal Navy, at sea or abroad, between the ages of eighteen and forty-eight for twenty-one years; two years in the Naval Reserve to count as one year at sea or abroad, and one year of war service to serve as one and a half years of ordinary service." 1390 "Greenwich Hospital was intended, so far as the building was concerned, to be for the future an asylum for infirm, helpless, and wounded seamen, and that seamen were not necessarily entitled to be received as inmates merely because they were in receipt of pensions, and because they were unfit for longer service at sea."—[3  Hansard "In former years the out-pensions were supplemental to the relief afforded by the Hospital; in later times the out-pensions constituted the chief source of relief, to which the Hospital is a supplement." s "Pensioners can only return with the loss of their pensions, and not in good health; they must be aged or infirm, or under medical treatment. Unless residing at a naval port they must go to Somerset House to be surveyed, married men being only allowed 2 s "Two or three years ago we were constantly applying to have men admitted into Greenwich Hospital, but we met with so many rebuffs and refusals that we ceased to make them, and the result is that the men themselves have almost forgotten that there is such a place as Greenwich Hospital in existence, and it is only when the medical officers, seeing that a man must be sent to his parish, take action themselves, and make representations to the Admiralty, that they occasionally, but very rarely indeed, succeed in getting them in." 1391 "You are of opinion that it would be of great advantage to the service and to the men if they had the power of coming in here if they chose?—Yes, I think it would be a very great advantage to the men and also to the service. I think that the service is maligned by these men, and, as I consider, justly, because these men present in their external appearance the marks of disease, and they go about saying,' I have served my country for so many years; I have lost my health in the service of my country, and they give me a miserable 6 d "Do you think that it would give pleasure to the men throughout the service if it were known, and would it be an inducement to good conduct in some sense if it were known that they had that privilege; would it render the service, in your opinion, more popular with the men?—To a certain extent I think it must be so: from what I have observed of the men they look upon this place as their home by right; that is a sentiment which is very deeply ingrained in the naval mind." "What is your opinion as regards increasing the inducement to become out-pensioners as compared with widening the area of admission into the Hospital?" "I would prefer to widen the area of admission of men into the Hospital, because I think it would be more beneficial to them and more beneficial to the public service." "Would it be of advantage to the service itself (I mean, in the opinion of the men) if they had increased facilities for admission into this place, and if invalids were really attended to here more largely than they are now?—I think it would be a great advantage to the service, and would give satisfaction to the men in general." "In the foregoing outline of the revision we propose in the Hospital establishment we have endeavoured to keep in view the following leading principles:—1. To make Greenwich Hospital that which from its general character we believe it ought to be—a self-contained institution under the Board of Admiralty. 2. To relax as far as may be expedient and practicable the present terms of admission for invalid inmates. 3. To reduce, as far as may be consistent with efficient
 1392 1393 s d d 1394 Dreadnought "You are turning into a mere hospital that magnificent establishment which has always been regarded by the sailors who have served their country long and well as a refuge for their old age." "The gentle Queen sleeps among her illustrious kindred. The affection with which her husband
 1395
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he always endeavoured to arrange the Business in accordance with the convenience of Members. There were certain measures the passing of which it was necessary to secure. There would be, he supposed, little if any doubt as to the propriety of proceeding with the Appropriation Bill. With regard to the Corrupt Practices Bill, he had certainly notified to hon. Members the possibility of its being proceeded with on Saturday, but he had stated that the matter would be definitely settled that evening. They had made considerable progress with the Bill that day having got through all the original clauses, the postponed clauses, and a great many of the new clauses; and but for the constitutional discussion which had arisen they would probably have succeeded in passing it through Committee. The remaining clauses would probably be dealt with in about an hour to-morrow so that the Bill might be read a third time on Monday. The Inland Revenue Bill was, he believed, a good one and ought to pass, but if it was likely to give rise to serious discussion he certainly should not think of pressing it on a Saturday morning. If there were any other measures which could be advanced a stage, and on which no discussion was expected, they would of course also be put down.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the hon. Baronet had very courteously, the other evening, not pressed his Notice, in consequence of which the Public Business had been very much convenienced and advanced. He was therefore sorry that his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War was not present to give him the explanation he desired. But his disappointment had arisen from some little inadvertence of his own, not having put a Notice on the Paper that he intended to ask the Question on the Report of Supply. After the short and clear statement now made the hon. Baronet would have no difficulty in eliciting at an early opportunity from his right hon. Friend the information he desired.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that he was an officer appointed by the Colonial Government.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that the rumours as to abuses existing were very much without foundation, and satisfactory regulations had been passed by the Queensland Legislature as to the emigration, which were much in accordance with the recommendation which had crossed them on the road from the Colonial Office. No Native could be taken on board ship unless he had a certificate from a Consul or Missionary, or some other person of known position, to the effect that he had ascertained, and could vouch for the fact, that the Native was going to emigrate voluntarily; and he thought, therefore, that the regulations as to this matter were complete. Whether it was possible to have any further guarantee against kidnapping Natives was under consideration. The ship, in the next place, must be licensed, and there was an officer on board each ship who must be satisfied before receiving them that the Natives had been properly engaged, and when the ship arrived at Queensland she was overhauled, and if any of these regulations had not been observed the shipowner was liable to a penalty of £20 for each non-observance of the prescribed conditions. His noble Friend (the Duke of Buckingham) was considering whether these provisions might not be made more stringent than they were, and also whether the security for the condition of the Natives on board might not be improved. No doubt there would be further provisions gradually indicated by further experience to guard against abuse.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he hoped that the Appropriation Bill, about which a good deal might be said, would be placed on the Paper after the Corrupt Practices Bill.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that the Committee had collected a vast deal of information; but it was be voluminous, and some of it had come so recently into the hands of the Government, that he should not he correct in saying that the question was under the consideration of the Government. At the same time, the question was one of so great importance that any Government must deal with it at the earliest opportunity.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that the Government had given no sanction to the proceeding referred to by the hon. Member. His attention being called to the Question on the previous evening by the hon. Member for Greenwich, he caused inquiry to be set on foot, and if the hon. Member would repeat his Question on a subsequent evening, such information as he possessed would be afforded.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the Government were placed in this difficulty—that the hon. Gentleman was asking them to depart from the conditions and terms under which these Extra Clerks entered the public service. It might be very true that those clerks did a very good day's work for very moderate pay, but if they were tired of the conditions under which they served the public, and chose to vacate their situations, their places could, no doubt, readily be filled, not perhaps by persons with the designation of Extra Clerks, but by persons who, while discharging analogous duties, and engaged in a similar manner by the day or week, would not be on the establishment, and would not enjoy those privileges and advantages which persons who were on the regular establishment did enjoy. The appointment of the Extra Clerks was one of the many attempts which had been made from time to time to limit the unwieldy character of the establishment in the Customs and in other Departments of the State. Any one who had listened to the statement which had been made a few nights ago by his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) could not failed to have perceived not only how important but how difficult it was to check the tendency which all our public establishments had to become overgrown. It was true that the Extra Clerks were few in number and many of them advanced in years, but it would be impossible to depart from the terms under which they were engaged and to put them on the establish-
 1410
 MR. FAWCETT  feared that, owing to the shortness of the Notice, there would not be so large an attendance as there otherwise would have been to discuss the new clauses of the Corrupt Practices Bill, several of which were very important.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he rose to call attention to the case of the Customs Extra Clerks. These gentlemen had no complaint to make against the chiefs of their Department nor against the Treasury. Their complaint had reference solely to the system or law which was in force, and which inflicted great injustice and hardship upon them. When there had been an unusual pressure of work in the Customs Department it had been the practice to engage a number of Extra Clerks, but as the additional work had invariably increased, instead of diminishing, these clerks were, of course, permanently engaged. Notwithstanding this, they were not attached to any particular class, and received no regular promotion. He could not conceive that any person acquainted with the internal details of the Customs administration could entertain any doubt as to the importance of having those details carried out by a class of men educated and trained to expertness in the duties devolving upon them, in preference to raw and untried labourers. There was, however, an entire want of acknowledgment of the services rendered by them. They could not at any time receive promotion or be draughted on to what was called the establishment. Some fifteen years ago, it appeared, the Treasury published a Minute to the effect that all persons then engaged in the service of the Crown, and who had been so engaged at an age above twenty-five years, should thenceforward have no promotion in the public service, nor be draughted to the regular establishment of the Customs or any of the departments subject to the administration of the Treasury. They were deprived of all the advantages enjoyed by those who belonged to the permanent establishment. This Minute sinned against the elementary principles of justice in legislation, and it was impossible to discover any principle
 1408 s s s s 1409 "That the Customs Extra Clerks be either amalgamated with the establishment or established as a separate class, and placed upon a footing with the establishment with regard to pay, prospects of promotion, and sick leave."
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that being responsible for the legislation of 1865 with regard to Greenwich Hospital, he felt sure that his hon. Friends who had spoken in favour of restoring the monastic institu-
 1404 1405 1406 d
 MR. O'BEIRNE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he would give Instructions to the Commission he proposed to appoint with reference to Land Tenure to inquire into and report on the best means, whether by Government aid or otherwise, of encouraging and assisting the creation of an independent proprietary of small freehold estates in Ireland? He was unwilling at so late a period of the Session to enter at any great length into the subject of which he had given Notice, but he would briefly refer to some statements some time since made by the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo), and upon which he (the noble Earl) seemed to rely in support of his assurance to the House of the advancing prosperity of Ireland. He would refer to two or three broad facts which would be sufficient to sustain his views, and he would support those facts from figures taken from the noble Earl's own statement, or from the Return lately moved for by him (Mr. O'Beirne), and now on the table of the House. The noble Earl, he believed, was simply in error in the assurance he gave of the immense and daily increasing advance of Ireland in wealth and prosperity, as a very few examples would show. Taking for instance the state of the Savings Banks deposits, in 1847, certainly a year not very famed for its happy recollections, but still a remarkable year in Ireland's history, the deposits amounted to the sum of £2,410,000, while in the year 1866, twenty-one years afterwards, they only reached £1,540,500. Well, what said the emigration Returns? In 1850 there were 80,000 emigrants, in 1863 there were 117,000, and the average of the four years up to 1867 was over; 100,000 in each year. If they turned to the state of the population they found that at the Union the people numbered over 5,000,000. The population steadily increased up to 1846, until within the period of forty-five years it had reached 8,287,848. But when they looked at the Census of 1865 they found that plague and famine had fearfully done their sad work, and the population had fallen to 5,641,000; and he deeply regretted to add that it continued to decrease, the last Return showing that in 1867 it had fallen to 5,557,000. Now, it did seem to him strange that with three such striking facts before him the noble Earl could find any
 1412 1413 1414 "That on account of the important consideration of public policy which this Bill appeared to involve, they have directed him to move the House that the Bill be re-committed to the Whole House and be printed, with the evidence upon it, for the use of Members." 1415 "Whereas, the formation and the establishment of a permanent body of independent yeomen, consisting of resident proprietors, holding farms in fee simple, containing respectively not less than thirty acres, would materially improve the social condition of Ireland by promoting the better cultivation of land, the reclamation of waste lands, and by personally interesting a large proportion of the population in the preservation of peace and order; and whereas there are many persons in Ireland possessing a limited amount of capital which they would gladly employ in the purchase of land if facilities were given for the transfer of estates or portions thereof, be it enacted," &c. Landed Estates Court Advertiser 1416
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he thought it was much to be regretted that the hon. Member for Honiton had brought forward a question of so much interest and importance at a period of the Session when it was utterly impossible that any practical result should follow or that the question could receive the attention which it deserved. In the administration of the funds of Greenwich Hospital there was an essential element of injustice. Those who had contributed to its maintenance for a century and a quarter, and who had been instrumental in creating its vast revenues—namely, the merchant seamen of this country—did not now participate, and never had fully and fairly participated, in its advantages. From 100 to 200 aged seamen in his own borough (Sunderland) who had been subjected by an operation of law to an enforced subscription to that institution, without ever having derived a fraction of benefit from it, were now left in a state of pauperism and supported by the rates. To a greater or less degree it was so in every other mercantile community throughout the country. While the just claims of our mercantile marine were thus entirely ignored, though the funds would amply suffice to meet them, the resources of the institution had been wasted and mismanaged, and no inconsiderable portion of them spent in pensions to officers of the navy, contrary to the conditions on which the Hospital was founded, and to the spirit of the legislation under which it had grown. In 1859 £120,000 was paid for annuities for retiring officers. The management of Greenwich Hospital stood pre-eminent for improvidence and injustice. It was said that the seamen of the mercantile marine, if they entered the Royal Navy, would obtain access to the benefits of the institution, but the injustice of the case was this—that whereas those benefits were open to anybody who entered the Royal Navy,
 1396
 MR. DILLWYN  desired to say a word or two upon the question of the adjournment. He had no objection to attending the House on a Saturday for the purpose of advancing Bills which had already been progressed with, and the passing of which was necessary, but he thought it undesirable that a "jaded House," to use the Prime Minister's own words, should be
 1420
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, in consequence of a promise which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury on Wednesday that if hon. Members having Notices to move in Supply would allow Supply to be then taken they would be afforded an opportunity of moving their Notices on the Report, he rose to call attention to a Return relative to Staff appointments ordered last year and presented in June, from which it appeared that the Royal Warrant (No. 106) restricting the holding a Staff appointment to five years had been frequently violated. He regretted the absence of the Secretary of State for War; but as the present was his last op-
 1368
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  asked that the answer might be given to him privately, for the date mentioned in the Question was the 20th instant, and the House would not sit again until that day.
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is with the sanction of the Government that the Tax Collectors of the South of London are issuing Notices that unless Assessed Taxes due on the 20th of March last are paid on or before the 20th of July, the person neglecting to pay will be disqualified from voting at the coming Election?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Her Majesty's Government have under consideration the Report and Recommendations of the School Inquiry Committee; and, if so, whether he is prepared to inform the House what steps they intend to take thereupon?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to know, Whether the officer on board ship who superintended the shipping of the Natives was an officer of the Government?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Government is prepared to suggest any measure by which the Act for regulating the Emigration of
 1366
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he hoped the Government would take into their favourable consideration the claims of the seamen of the merchant service, and offer them a wing of the Hospital which could be put into an efficient state of repair at a moderate cost. This would be but just, and he hoped the Government would consent to the arrangement, instead of banding them over to a charitable society.
 MR. DU CANE  said, as the Chairman of the Committee to which the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had referred, he could not but feel gratified at the complimentary terms in which his hon. Friend had spoken of their Report. Whatever the merits or demerits of that Report might be, all he could say was that it was intended that the inquiry should be of the most searching character, and he felt bound to take this, the first, public opportunity presented to him to acknowledge the valuable assistance he received from the other Members of the Committee. As no two men appeared to think alike either in regard to the past or the future of the Hospital, he did not expect that the recommendations of the Committee would command universal assent. But the Committee, as the Report abundantly showed, entered upon their investigation with no predilections in favour of profuse expenditure or useless sinecures. Their desire throughout was to ascertain how they could combine the strictest economy with the fullest efficiency on the part of the establishment of the Hospital. He hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) would not think him discourteous if he did not follow him to-night through his elaborate history of the birth of the Hospital and first intentions of its founder. The object now was to deal with the future of the Hospital, and upon this subject two broad views might be said to be entertained by different parties. The first was that of his hon. Friend, who would go back to the early days of the Hospital and carry out to the very letter the charter of William and Mary, and would by so doing establish a state of things unsuited to the present time. The second was the view taken last year by the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), who would offer to the present inmates inducements somewhat similar to those which produced a clearance in 1865, and the ultimate operation of which would be to close the Hospital altogether. The Report of the Committee took a middle course between
 1397 nolentes volentes 1398 d Dread-nought Dreadnought Dreadnought 1399 Dreadnought Dreadnought 1400 Dreadnought 1401
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) deserved the thanks both of the naval service and the country for having brought forward this question. He was one of those who greatly regretted what he might call the destruction of that noble naval institution, Greenwich Hospital. The office of Governor had been a great naval dignity which Admirals who had served in all parts of the world might look forward to as a great reward. Then the Hospital itself was regarded by the sailors as a post of honour. They considered it an honour to wear its uniform and to be members of the institution. It was very; like what the Invalides in France was. But we had now got rid of it, and the same thing would be done, he supposed, by-and-by with Chelsea Hospital, which occupied towards the army much the same position as Greenwich Hospital towards the navy. We should do a great injury to the military service if we lost Chelsea Hospital, and he
 1402 1403
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, it would be in the memory of the House that, shortly after the General Election, amongst the first steps taken by the Irish Secretary of the then Government (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) was the introduction of a Bill dealing with the question of landlord and tenant in Ireland, proposing to give some approach to secure tenure to the people. That Bill was energetically opposed by the party with whom the noble Earl acts in this House, and by none more energetically than by the noble Earl himself. [The Earl of MAYO: I only opposed one clause in the Bill.] The noble Earl not only objected to one particular clause, but he opposed the second reading in a very long and most energetic speech, and if he (Sir John Gray) rightly remembered he described it to the House as a confiscation Bill designed to spoliate the property of the landlords, and the noble Earl succeeded in
 1419
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would be glad if hon. Gentlemen who objected to any of these measures would communicate with him, so that those Bills likely to lead to discussions might not be
 1421
 MR. HENLEY  said, that owing to the assistance which the Government received from amateurs or from some other cause, the expenditure upon the army and navy had been enormously increased of late years. He protested against the time of the House being occupied by a discussion of this kind when they had met for the purpose of considering a specific measure.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had done everything he could and adopted every suggestion that appeared likely to put an end to bribery and corruption, unless the proposal were carried to an extent that seemed to him unjust. It was once said that a Judge put an end to a practice which during his time was very rife, of captains ill-treating their seamen, by hanging an innocent captain. The practice might have been put an end to by hanging that captain, but he objected to the means by which the end was accomplished. He objected to this clause because he believed it to be unjust to the constituency. The question was not how it would work in one but in every instance. He would take the case of a constituency of 3,000 electors, one candidate polling 1,000 and the other 2,000. If four or five cases of corruption among the majority were proved, the effect of this clause would be practically to disfranchise the great majority of the constituency, against whom there was no imputation. That seemed to him unjust. Besides, the successful candidate would be exposed to great danger. What a temptation would be held out to any four or five persons to come forward and say they had
 1441
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, the House was on its trial. The principle of the plan proposed by the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Goldsmid) was introduced by the present Government in the Reform Bill. They had paltered with electioneering corruption till the money question had become the disgrace of English electioneering, and they must apply a drastic remedy by the establishment of a pure tribunal. He should support the clause.
 COLONEL WILSON-PATTEN  said, the clause would lay candidates open to all kinds of tricks and snares; and any Member's seat could be taken from him if it were passed. A couple of clever lawyers could put upon it any interpretation they liked.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not think they would succeed in stopping corruption by attempting to do so by means of such gross injustice as formed the basis of this clause. It would admit to the House Members who had polled only one-third of the number of electors. The good feeling of even man must revolt against it.
 MR. LOWE  maintained that the argument of the Solicitor General was put too high when he placed it on justice and the rights of the majority. How did they respect the rights of the majority now? In cases of bribery the votes of the majority actually went for nothing; but the question, which was one not of justice but expediency, was this—given, a case of bribery proved against the successful candidate; given, another candidate petitioning who had polled one-third of the votes; was it most for the good of the public and for the cause of purity—which they all had at heart—that the minority should be represented during the then Parliament, or that those who had had their pockets filled should at a new election have an opportunity of reaping a double harvest? As the votes have been thrown away so far as the return of one candidate is concerned, they should be equally thrown away as against his opponent. He thought the clause offered a great encouragement to purity. There was no injustice or iniquity in it of any kind.
 MR. KINGLAKE  explained that he had
 1442
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  contended that the clause would operate with the greatest possible injustice to the large majority of the electors in a borough. A successful candidate who was perfectly innocent would be exposed to this danger—a person who represented himself to be an agent who had opened a public-house and fraudulently treated or bribed some three or four individuals might come forward and say, "I bribed these men; I can show you how not only to unseat the Member, but to disqualify him, disfranchise the great majority of the constituency, and transfer the seat to a candidate who had polled only one-third of the voters." This was a question, not of expediency, but of justice. The clause seemed to him to carry the penalty too far.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, there was no such thing as an immaculate borough, with only two or three black sheep. The character of a borough was well known in the bribery market. The clause of the hon. Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid) went directly to the root of the evil. The Bill was the keystone of the arch of Reform.
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, the great objection to this clause was that by its operation an injustice would be done to the opinions of the majority. Now, either that majority was tainted with the corruption of the candidate, or it was not. If it were, it ought to be punished as well as the candidate; if it were not, then it would be only too glad to get rid of a corrupt Member.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, the objection was, not that they got rid of a corrupt Member, but that they were also saddled with one to whose opinions they had the greatest objection.
 MR. FAWCETT  brought forward a clause, the substance of which, and of a supplemental clause, he explained to be to throw the expense of elections upon the county or borough rates; but that, with a view to prevent clearly unnecessary and vexatious contests, a condition was annexed which was adopted with good effect in Australia, that the candidate should deposit a sum with the returning officer ns a pledge of his sincerity in the contest. He had fixed the sum at £100, but he was willing to consult the feeling of the House, and either to diminish or to increase the sum. In order to prevent the constituency being put to unnecessary expense, he proposed that this sum should be forfeited if the defeated candidate did not poll one-tenth of the number of votes recorded for the successful candidate who was lowest on the poll. Here, again, he was in the hands of the House as to the exact numbers, as he only was anxious to affirm the principle. It was objected to this plan that the constituencies might not like it, and that Members might be afraid to disoblige their constituencies. In answer to that he could only say that the subject had been before the public for a long time—it had been discussed in all the papers, and he had received many hundreds of letters upon it; but there was not a single one that did not express the warmest approval of the scheme. Then it was said that this scheme would encourage unnecessary contests; but he did not think that would be the case. Everybody knew that at present the contests were got up mainly by solicitors and agents, and this scheme would rather have a tendency to check that course. Besides, the expenses of the municipal elections were all defrayed by the rates, and he was at a loss to understand why the county elections should not be defrayed in the same manner. It was the general opinion that the cost of elections was the great danger to the Constitution. If something were not done, and that speedily, to check the evil, it would be impossible in a few years to obtain a seat in the House except by a large expenditure of money, and he thought there was a danger to the Constitution in such, a state of things.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the question in which the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) was interested had also been, treated by another Member of the House—the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere)—and he confessed that if the House were to adopt the principle of the measure the proposition of the hon. Member for Middlesex seemed to him to be the simplest and the most sensible of the two. But he objected to the proposition, because the rates of the county had been so burdened of late that he thought they ought to lie fallow for a time, and that it would be unwise in a Bill for the suppression of corruption to introduce this invidious principle of increasing the rates. But there was another objection. This was a Bill to prevent corrupt practices, and he had yet to learn that the payment of the expenses of the returning officer by a candidate was a corrupt practice. It was not connected with the subject-matter of
 1445
 MR. LABOUCHERE  observed that the payment of returning officers' expenses became a corrupt practice by the excessive charges which were made in some cases.
 MR. CORRANCE : Knowing that some difference of opinion exists on this side of the House upon the merits of the question now before us, I may ask to be allowed to say a few words, which will, at least, explain my own conduct upon it. It seems to me an eminently unsatisfactory result of the present Reform Bill that it should tend, both in county and town, to increase the expenses of elections. And no less so, that on the part of Her Majesty's Government no effort of a  bonâ fide 1446
 MR. BAINES  argued that the Act of last year would greatly increase the necessary expenses of elections; and if those expenses were to be thrown on the candidates, it would be tantamount to restoring the old property qualification for Members, which had been abolished some years since by Parliament as wrong in principle. In Leeds the number of electors had been increased from 7,000 to upwards of 35,000; and as no more than 500 votes could be recorded under the Reform Act at any one polling-place, there must be between sixty and seventy polling places. It was customary to have at each polling-place a deputy returning officer at three guineas, a clerk at a guinea, besides messengers; and without the check which municipal management would certainly impose the expenses would be enormous. However prejudicial this might be to candidates, it would be still more injurious to those lately admitted to the franchise; for the votes conferred upon them would be of no use if we diminished the number of those out of their own class
 1447
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he was much interested to hear the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baines) so well describe the evils and dangers of a system of which he had been a most distinguished advocate. Not one of the labouring classes, if his statements were true, would ever be able to set his foot within those doors as the advocate of his class. It was an excellent illustration of the maxim— Necis artifices arte perire sua.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he must give his vote in favour of the clause. He viewed with great regret the addition of any charges to the rates of this country; but the chief importance of the clause was as to its effect on the borough franchise. On the part of the community at large it would really effect a very considerable
 1448
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he was
 1449
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the point which had been for some time under discussion was undoubtedly one of very considerable importance; but as that point had no reference to corrupt practices, he thought the proposed clause would be very much out of place in that Bill. The principle of the clause was one which deserved more consideration than could be given to it on the present occasion. It might be said that the counties and boroughs ought to bear the expenses of the elections; but he thought that principle was open to question. Suppose a Member of Parliament accepted an office in the Government, his appointment to which made it necessary that he should go to his constituents, ought the expenses of the election to be charged on the county or the borough, as the case might be?
 MR. J. STUART MILL : Is it fair or reasonable to take advantage of a technical difficulty in order to leave a question of this sort undecided until after the next election? If in a purely legal point of view it does not belong to the subject of corrupt practices, yet it belongs to a system of measures of which that relating to corrupt practices is the completion. Unless it be agreed to, the system will be left incomplete, and the Reform Act will, in some important respects, actually deteriorate the representation, for its practical effect will be to bring us nearer to a plutocracy than we ever have been before. I would most earnestly appeal to the hon. Member for Suffolk (Mr. Corrance), who has made so excellent a speech in favour of the proposition, to put for the present in abeyance his objections to any additional burthen on the local rates—objections in which, as I have stated on a former occasion, I in part agree, and which will certainly, with the whole subject of the incidence of rates, come under the early consideration of the new Parliament. I beg him to trust the fairness and sense of justice of the future House of Commons, and not to resist a provision required for the beneficial working of our political institutions, because it involves a very small, and probably temporary, addition to the local expenditure.
 MR. CORRANCE  said, to the proposal
 1450
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT , while preferring his own proposal, would give his support to the second reading of the hon. Member for Brighton's clause.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it would no doubt be agreeable enough to Members not to be called upon to pay these expenses; but it should be remembered that the county rates were very heavy, and the borough rates so overpowering that in many places they could hardly be collected. Yet they were now asked to pass a clause which was admitted to have nothing to do with corrupt practices—the proper subject of this Bill. Far from lowering the expenses, it would in all probability increase them by diminishing the interest of individual candidates to keep them down.
 MR. WHITE  did not hesitate to say that, taking into consideration the economy which would be practised if this charge were forced upon the constituencies, the burden on the property of the country would not exceed ¼ d.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  expressed his opinion that the Government were acting disgracefully in raising technical objections to the clause, which would certainly receive his hearty support. This was the first occasion on which any attempt had been made to diminish the expenditure at elections.
 MR. BAINES  trusted the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. W. B. Beaumont) would not persevere with his Motion, which was founded half in injustice and half in justice. The whole of the official expenses at municipal elections were paid out of the borough rates.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he was under the impression that there had been a distinct understanding between himself and the hon. Member for Northumberland to the effect that if his scheme were rejected the hon. Member should introduce his Amendment. On his part, he promised that, in the event of his own proposal being rejected, he would vote for that of his hon. Friend. He was somewhat surprised to find, therefore, that his hon. Friend had now deemed it necessary to bring forward his Amendment.
 MR. MONK  hoped the hon. Member (Mr. W. B. Beaumont) would not withdraw his Amendment. He should not have voted with the hon. Member for Brighton if he had not understood that the hon. Member for Northumberland intended, if the clause were carried, to move his Amendment.
 MR. M. T. BASS  said, he could not see that there had been any misunderstanding in the matter. He trusted that the hon. Member for Northumberland would not press his Amendment.
 MR. GLADSTONE  was also of opinion that there had been no violation of any understanding; but at the same time urged the withdrawal of the Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that they had been told that Gentleman went down to constituencies ticketed at the amount of money they could spend. He never heard of that before; but the authority was so good, he daresay the statement was true. If a candidate were saved the necessary expenses of an election, he would have so much more money to spend in bribery.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BOUVERIE  objected to the proviso of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) providing that no candidate should be named unless before the day of nomination he should have deposited £100 with the returning officer. A proposal of that nature proceeding from the Liberal side of the House was calculated to make hon. Members' hair stand on end. It was the common right of the electors at an election to nominate anybody who was a subject of the Queen and of full age as a candidate for the constituency.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the House would be glad to learn that anyone could be nominated and elected who was not in possession of £100, but whose friends were willing to put down £100 for him.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he doubted whether it was competent for the House, except in Committee of Ways and Means, to impose burdens upon rates, as had been, done by the last division.
 THE CHAIRMAN  intimated that the vote was quite in Order.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  said, the clause which had just been agreed to contained no reference to the county of York or those other counties which were split up into divisions. He moved the addition at the end of the clause of the words—
 "Provided always that in case the county at which the county rate is made is or shall be divided into two or more parts for Parliamentary representation, then the same expenses shall be charged and defrayed by and out of the county rate levied for that part of the county for which the election takes place."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the principle of the Amendment was sound, as it would be unjust to saddle a whole county with the expense of an election for one of its divisions, But in most counties at present the county rate was indivisible, and there was no machinery for separating it. It would, therefore, be necessary to add some words to the Amendment to provide machinery for dividing the rate.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, there were many parishes that were partly in one division and partly in another.
 MR. BOUVERIE  regarded this as an example of the difficulties in which the House had involved itself by accepting the clause. He approved of the principle of the Amendment; but he suggested that the noble Lord (Viscount Milton) should withdraw it for the present, and bring it up in a mare practicable form at a future stage of the Bill.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the whole question was one of policy, not of words. The difficulty of dividing the rates would apply not only to counties but even to certain boroughs, where the parishes were not conterminous with the borough. There was neither time nor opportunity to carry into effect a policy of this kind, nor had the House given sufficient consideration to the subject.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  believed, that where there was a will there was a way, would not be frightened by the time argument, and would leave the counties to pay for divisional elections rather than sacrifice the clause that had been carried.
 MR. LEEMAN , as a practical man, said, there was no difficulty whatever in
 1453
 MR. LOCKE  also thought that there would be no difficulty in apportioning the expenses among the different districts of a county.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Committee had passed by a small majority, but after a considerable discussion, a very important clause, involving a new principle, and he thought it would be undesirable that they should now proceed to the consideration of matters of detail. He would therefore suggest that the noble Lord (Viscount Milton) should withdraw his Amendment, and that the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) should allow the proviso to be struck out of the clause on the understanding that upon the Report these two questions would be fully considered, and provision made respecting them.
 MR. WYLD  observed, that many hon. Members had voted for the clause who would not have voted for the proviso. He himself was under the impression that he was voting for the clause alone.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  expressed his readiness to withdraw his Amendment, with a view to afford an opportunity for a more careful consideration of the subject.
 MR. FAWCETT  intimated, that he would not press his proviso at that moment if it were understood that they should hereafter have an opportunity of considering an amended proposal for the attainment of the same object. If hon. Members should think it a better arrangement he would have no objection to provide that the £100 should be deposited when a poll was demanded.
 MR. WHITBREAD  observed, that if the clause had been proposed without that proviso there were many hon. Gentlemen who would not have voted for it. He therefore suggested that the hon. Member for Brighton should withdraw the clause as a whole, and bring up a new one on the Report.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought that, before consenting to have the clause inserted in the Bill, the Committee should have a guarantee that 6ome proviso would he inserted in it to prevent candidates who had no  bonâ fide
 MR. HENLEY  thought the proviso was a material element in the clause. The Committee were now asked to set aside the proviso and, for the present, to take the clause without it. He believed that there were many Members who would not have voted for the clause without the proviso.
 MR. GLADSTONE  observed, that inasmuch as the clause had not yet been added to the Bill nothing had been done to embarrass the Committee. He, and he believed many other Members, had voted for the clause without the slightest idea that they voted for the proviso. They had no notion when voting that the principle which they wished to affirm had been reduced to a practical shape.
 MR. REPTON  concurred in the view taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley).
 MR. AYRTON  thought the hon. Member for Brighton ought to make a statement of his plan.
 MR. FAWCETT  explained, that his whole speech in moving the clause was based upon the supposition that the proviso was to form a part of the clause. He would withdraw the proviso, in order to bring it up in an amended form on the Report.
 MR. CLAY  said, the object of the declaration he proposed was to make it impossible for a gentleman to commit bribery and to hold up his head afterwards. He desired to make bribery an offence for which a man should be blackballed at his club and cut by his friends, for in that way alone could a proper stigma be attached to the offence. It was said that the declaration would catch the man with the sensitive conscience and not the unscrupulous man but he must indeed be an unscrupulous man who could deliberately make the declaration at the table, knowing that it was false, and that its falsity was known to many others—those others his intimate friends and supporters. Some years ago, when he made a similar proposal, his hon.
 1455
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he hoped the Government would not accept the clause. They should pause before establishing new declarations like this when they had only just been engaged in abolishing a lot of the old promissory oaths. He believed that such declarations were only traps for tender consciences. They all knew when gentlemen had to make an oath that they had sufficient property qualification, that such oaths were constantly taken by persons who had not the qualification.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Government would oppose the clause on the simple ground that these declarations had been very often tried and had invariably failed. They were, in fact, merely a means of putting difficulties in the way of tender consciences. Another reason why he opposed the clause was that the hon. Member who proposed it (Mr. Clay) did
 1456
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, it was no great compliment to the House to represent that it consisted of persons whom a declaration upon honour would not bind. He himself thought a declaration on honour would bind the Members of the House, provided it was imposed with a serious intention of doing so. It had been too much the fashion to regard these declarations as mere forms; but they were so only when the engagement which they made was one which opinion did not really desire to enforce. The object should be to impress upon Members that the House was really in earnest and meant the declaration to be a sincere one. That object was sought to be obtained by the penalty of £500, and he thought this would be a means of enforcing the declaration.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  suggested that a Member who could not subscribe to the declaration might wait until the time for the presentation of Petitions was passed.
 MR. CLAY  denied that a declaration, had been tried and failed. No man could take this declaration falsely without knowing it to be false and without knowing that the fact must be within the knowledge of others. When a man entered Parliament with a property qualification supplied to him by others for the purpose, the qualification was real and not fictitious, and the Member, therefore, could honestly make the declaration that used to be required. That a man was thus trusted with a property which he might appropriate to himself—and there was a case in which this had been, done—was  primâ facie
 MR. NEATE  said, he thought the declaration would not meet the worst cases—those of boroughs, where it was well-known votes were bought, for the man
 1457
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, the strongest practical argument in favour of this declaration was that it would protect candidates against the election agents. A man might go down to contest a borough and tell his agents and canvassers that he intended to do so honourably and honestly. Under the old system agents might bribe unknown to the candidate until he received his election bills. The candidate in future, however, would be unable to take advantage of this device, because he would be unable to make the declaration.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the great difficulty was to find words which would attain the object. He could not conceive of words more cleverly suggestive of scruples and difficulties to conscientious men than the words of the clause. The declaration went beyond the only matter they had to consider, which was whether a man had done anything to disqualify him from sitting in the House Any declaration beyond that was one they had no right to ask a man to make. In one of the grossest cases of bribery that ever occurred the candidate was out of England at the time of the election; and the tendency of the clause would be to encourage the system of a candidate keeping aloof from the election, and of its being understood that it was the express duty of everybody about him to say nothing to him on the subject.
 MR. SCHREIBER  regarded the declaration as a protective in certain respects, which might prove advantageous.
 MR. M. T. BASS  felt persuaded that every clause of the Bill might be dispensed with if the one now under discussion were passed.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he thought the clause would lower the character of candidates by deterring the conscientious from candidature. He wondered anyone should attach importance to declarations of this kind, when officers constantly made and violated the declaration that they would not pay anything more than the regulation price for their commissions.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, the declaration would let in everybody who had no regard for their word, and would keep out the conscientious.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that unless he could induce the Committee to assist him he saw considerable difficulties in the way of the progress of the Bill. Adopting the
 1458
 LORD ELCHO  said, he thought that the hon. Gentleman who brought this subject forward deserved the thanks of the House, for his observation led him to the conclusion that the most ungrateful task which could fall to the lot of any Member on his side of the House was to submit for discussion any question relating to mal-administration in a great public Department, or to endeavour to bring about a reduction of expenditure. On such occasions the financial Reformers were generally absent, or, if present, cheered anything which fell from a Government official with a view to throwing a shield over mal-administration. No sooner did an hon. Gentleman propose to bring forward an important question like that under consideration than he was asked not to take up the time of the House, and thereupon the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) cheered. Immediately afterwards another great financial Reformer, the hon. Member for Gloucester, got up and moved that the House be counted. The subject under discussion was one which concerned the national safety, and the due and proper expenditure of a vast amount of public money,
 1438 1439
 MR. MONK , in reply to the taunt of the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) denied that hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House were anxious to obstruct measures for the reduction of expenditure. Few Members were more regular in their attendance than he (Mr. Monk) was when Supply was taken, and he invariably voted for reduction of expenditure; but he was unaware that any practical good would result from the discussion which had been raised to-day. The noble Lord (Lord Elcho) and the hon. Member (Mr. O'Beirne), however, had doubtless accomplished their object, which was to "air their oratory."
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  expressed a hope that the hon. Gentleman would post-
 1427
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  replied that when, a similar Question was put to him a few days ago he stated that the Commission would probably report before the close of the Session, and he had still reason to believe that this would be so. With regard to the outports, that was a matter which the Treasury would have to decide. Certainly the Commission in its present form would not continue the inquiry, but it was intended that the whole subject should be investigated.
 MR. FAWCETT  protested against the unnecessary attack which the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) had made upon him in accusing him of not being a sincere financial reformer. He expressed disapproval at this Motion having been brought forward at a time when they were brought down to consider a most important Bill for the prevention of bribery and corruption at Parliamentary Elections. So far as he (Mr. Fawcett) knew the noble Lord had never yet voted in favour of a Motion for the reduction of expenditure.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  rose, pursuant to Notice, to call attention to the recent experiments at Shoeburyness with reference to the proposed Plymouth fortifications.
 MR. O'BEIRNE : I think, if the hon. Member had recollected for a moment, he would have scarcely made that request. This Motion stood in a fair position on Thursday last for discussion. It is one which has been watched with considerable interest by many Members of this House, and also by a large number of persons outside; and, at the instance of the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister, I at once postponed it, in order that the other Public Business then on the Paper might be proceeded with. The right hon. Gentleman at that time informed me that I should have an opportunity of bringing the matter under the notice of the House to-day, and therefore I am prepared to do so. I may state that I do not intend to occupy the time of the House at any great length. I therefore hope I may be permitted to call attention to the Motion. Although I agree with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Devizes, that the Corrupt Practices Prevention Bill is one of great importance, yet I think the House will scarcely say that the question I desire to discuss is one of less importance to the country generally, inasmuch as it affects the safety of the kingdom, and also the interests of the ratepayers, involving as it does an enormous amount of expenditure. Before entering on the question of which I have given Notice, I wish first to say one word to clear away a misconception which has arisen. I never entertained the opinion, much less expressed it, that the policy already decided upon—that a certain amount of expenditure for shore fortifications should be incurred—was an
 1428 1429 The Times, The Times "The next round, also a 10-inch shell with charge for 1,000 yards, was more successful, striking a little above the left-hand corner of the porthole. It did great damage, carrying away the whole of the shield above the embrasure up
 1430 The Times' 1431 1432 1433
 MR. O'BEIRNE  resumed, I much regret that so much time has been lost by so useless a proceeding as has just been adopted by the hon. Gentleman behind me (Mr. Monk). It will of course be a question between the hon. Gentleman and his constituents whether the latter will approve of this attempt of his to keep back what I have stated is a grave public question, involving the expenditure of millions of money which, as I have asserted, has so far been uselessly expended, and with reference to which I have been earnestly, and I hope briefly, endeavouring to explain to the House the grounds upon which I have formed these opinions. The immediate object which led me to draw attention to the subject at this late period of the Session was this—I desired to impress on the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for War the necessity of giving to the House some assurance as to what his future policy will be with regard to this matter. I wished to recall the attention of hon. Members before the close of the present Session—before this House had sat for the last time—to a subject which I believe to be of serious moment, which has frequently and for a long period occupied public consideration, and which I believe to be second to no other in the general interest it has excited throughout the country. I have now only to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether after the various experiments to which I have alluded, and the results which I have stated, he will give the House some hope that he will stop further expenditure on fortifications and shields until we shall have attained, either by the Report of the Committee which he has himself appointed, or by further experiments, should they be considered necessary, such a degree of certainty as our present scientific knowledge will enable us to reach with reference to this most intricate and difficult question? I ask the right hon. Baronet whether he means to stay his hand and to prevent further outlay, or whether he means to accept before the House and before the country the grave responsibility which will fall upon him and his Colleagues should he persevere in the wasteful application of the public money to a system of fortifications which all the information we now possess emphatically and beyond all question declares to be entirely unsuited to the purposes of defence of our arsenals and dockyards for which they were intended?
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Commission appointed by the Treasury to inquire into the grievances of Customs' Officers in London has made its Report; and, if it is intended to extend the investigation to the outports, when the inquiry may be expected to commence?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had no reason to complain of the course taken by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. O'Beirne) in bringing this matter under the consideration of the House; and he thought the practical reason assigned by the hon. Gentleman at the close of his speech for submitting this question was fair, just, and reasonable. He (Sir John Pakington), however, regretted, under the peculiar circumstances of the Session, that the hon. Gentleman should have felt himself compelled at that moment to raise such a question, because he confessed that he was not in a position to give so distinct and decided an answer to the hon. Gentleman's inquiry as he should be able to do if the matter were mentioned a few days later. The important experiments which took place at Shoeburyness upon the Plymouth target were carried on under the superintendence of the Committee especially appointed for the purpose. From that Committee he expected a full Report of their judgment of the result of those experiments, and until he had received that Report he thought the hon. Gentleman himself would admit it was impossible for him to come to a conclusion upon the course he should think it his duty to take. He could not, however, help remarking he thought the hon. Gentleman had a little exaggerated the effect of the firing on the Plymouth target. The Plymouth fort was no doubt designed to resist most powerful artillery, but not precisely the guns of that day. The hon. Gentleman had indeed pointed out the distinction between the guns in favour some few years ago and those at the present period; but he did not apply that distinction as he ought to have done to the experiments which were tried the other day at Shoeburyness. Those experiments of firing to which the target was exposed were of extraordinary force. The order which he (Sir John Pakington) had given upon this subject was that the fort to be fired at should be placed at the nearest possible distance at which an enemy's ship could approach in a time of war—namely, about 200 yards, and that it should be exposed to the fire of a 22-ton gun, with a full charge like the Armstrong gun. The hon. Gentleman must, however, candidly admit that the fort was not originally designed to bear the firing of a gun of that kind, such a gun not having been known at the time the fort was designed,
 1436 1437
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was under the impression that the 22-ton gun was invented when the Plymouth forts were invented.
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If it is true that the designer of the  Achilles Minotaur
 SIR JOHN HAY , in reply, said, some misapprehension existed on the part of the hon. and gallant Member as to the form of the Return which was laid on the table some time ago with regard to this Question. Four out of five naval officers forming the Committee reported against the masting of the  Achilles Achilles Minotaur,
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the wages of the Ropemakers in Chatham Dockyard have been reduced to nineteen shillings and two pence per week, and that men who have been working overtime have been suddenly dismissed from the service; and in such case whether the Board of Admiralty contemplate any arrangement which would diminish the distress occasioned by these proceedings?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said he presumed that the hon. Member referred to the reduction made in the time men were employed—namely, from six to five days in the week. If this reduction had not been made the amount of Supply voted for the Department would have been exhausted by the end of the year, a circumstance that would have led to the dismissal of all the men, and to great distress in Chatham. This was an arrangement which had been proposed by the late Board of Admiralty, and the steam machinery which had been erected was capable of working small quantities when the times were slack, and also of working off what was wanted at periods of pressure. This was the first time the Board of Admiralty had attempted to follow the advice of our great political economists—namely, to regulate our supplies with the reasonable demands of the year. Judging from the tone of the hon. Gentleman's Question, be was afraid that the change was not likely to meet with much favour amongst the artizans of Chatham. Very few hired men had been dismissed, and those had received as long a notice as the requirements of the service allowed.
 LORD STANLEY , in reply, said, he believed that the facts of the case to which the hon. Member referred were these—A man named Vargas, a schoolmaster at Malaga, was now under prosecution by the local authorities of the district. There was some discrepancy between the several statements that had reached him from various sources as to the precise nature of the charges against this person. The charge against him, he believed, was not that of having Protestant books in his possession, but that he, being a schoolmaster, was alleged to have taught Protestant doctrines to the pupils under his charge, and the fact of his having certain Protestant books in his possession was only brought forward as evidence in support of the charge. The proceedings instituted against him had been instituted by the local authorities upon their own motion, and not by the Spanish Government who did not even appear when the matter was first mentioned to know that such proceedings had occurred. With regard to the later part of the Question he need hardly remind the hon. Member that this was a very delicate matter for the Government to meddle with, because, the man being a Spanish subject and subject to Spanish laws, whatever Her Majesty's Government might think of the policy of the proceeding, they had absolutely no right to interfere. Any communication between the two Governments upon the subject must be one of an entirely friendly and unofficial character; and even in that case we had to guard most carefully against the appearance of wishing to dictate to the Spanish Government. The only ground upon which diplomatic action could be founded in a case of this kind was that such proceedings tended to create a good deal of excitement among a Protestant community, which might result in international ill-feeling. Upon that ground alone had he felt himself at liberty in a
 1480
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he could not help expressing his regret that the hon. Member for the City of Oxford, who felt himself secure in his seat, should have thought it his duty to interfere with a gentleman who was a candidate seeking to secure a seat in Parliament. He should have thought that the House and the country would view with leniency any statement made by candidates who were anxious to win the favour of this new and numerous constituency. The hon. Gentleman asked him whether the gallant Captain had had any communication with the Admiralty with regard to the establishment of a Dockyard and Arsenal at Gravesend. He had not seen the whole of the gallant Captain's Address, but the extract which had been read to the House by the hon. Member led him to suppose that the gallant Captain had not even suggested ouch a thing, but that the project having been suggested by the constituency had been favourably received by him, and that he hoped that his powers of persuasion, if returned, would be such as to enable him successfully to plead their cause in Parliament. No doubt it would be a great loss if they did not in the next Parliament have Gentlemen returned who possessed those powers of persuasion which the gallant Captain believed he possessed.
 MR. H. EDWARDS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether, in view of the great economy in time and cost which would be effected in the shipment of Coal at Portland, by availing of the direct Railway communication with the Coal districts of South Wales, it would not be desirable to provide forthwith the necessary facilities at Portland for coaling Her Majesty's Ships, in lieu of the more expensive and tedious mode of supplying through depôts?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that the removal was made by the orders of the Master of the Horse, after several communications with the authorities at the Curragh, who were willing to accede to the arrangement. It rested with the Master of the Horse to make any changes which might he deemed necessary in connection with the running for the Queen's Plates.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he rose to make an objection to the title of this Bill, which, he contended, did not cover its contents, inasmuch as a Registration Bill could not be presumed to contain provisions with reference to polling-places. The objection might be got rid of either by discharging the Order and bringing in a new Bill, or by altering the Bill in order to make it correspond with its title. He believed that the objection ought to have been taken on the second reading; but, as the Bill was read a second time before it was printed, it was impossible for him to have offered the objection at that stage.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that most Bills, after indicating the contents, contained the words "and for other purposes." In this instance these words did not occur; but the objection taken by the hon. Member was a preliminary one, which ought to have been offered on the second reading, and it was now too late to make it.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that in moving the second reading he had informed the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) that the Bill would contain provisions for additional polling-places, and had also stated the fact in the few words with which he introduced the measure; and he trusted, therefore, that the House would acquit him of having acted in any way unfairly. It was true that the Bill was read a second time before
 1487
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he could not regard an accidental remark made to himself in the light of a communication to the House of the contents of the Bill. It would have been much better if the noble Earl had had the Bill printed.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that the Irish Members had been taken quite by surprise. This Bill had not been discussed, not a word said, upon the second reading. It was introduced at two o'clock in the morning on Tuesday week. The noble Earl did not then explain its provisions fully. The noble Earl stated that the object was simply to have the registration taken in such time as to enable the General Election to take place in November, and then just as he was sitting down he said that it would also contain some; alteration with respect to the increase of polling-places. It was put down for a second reading on Thursday, and when it came on it was found that it had not been printed. At the time of the second; reading he and several other Irish Members were in Ireland. When the Bill was printed it was discovered that it made a most material change in the law of Ireland regarding polling-places. The result had been to bring back Irish Members who had left for the Session, and the first opportunity they had of considering it was after the Appropriation Bill had been read a second time in that House. He certainly thought this was not fair in the noble Earl or Her Majesty's Government. If he were in "another place," he might say that it was a dodge or a trick, but as he knew that that would be un-Parliamentary in that House, he would not use the expression. According to the existing law in Ireland, application might be made to the magistrates in Quarter Sessions for new polling-places, and if such application were sanctioned by the Lord Lieutenant and the Privy Council the alteration took effect. By the present Bill it was proposed to render the sanction of the Lord Lieutenant and the Privy Council unnecessary. Now, nine-tenths of the magistrates in: Ireland were Conservatives of the highest possible order, and to place in their, hands such a power was certainly not a proposal that ought to be made at the end of a Session when so few Irish Members were in London. The result would
 1488
 MR. SYNAN  said, the Irish Registration Bill ought to have been brought in simultaneously with the English Registration Bill, and not in the last week or the last fortnight of the Session. But in the English Bill there were provisions for increasing the polling-places according to the increase made in the county constituency; while in Ireland there was no increase in the constituency, and it was expected that the Irish Registration Bill would be confined to registration. In the speech of the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo) in introducing the measure, as reported in  The Times
 MR. VANCE  said, he must contend that there had been no surprise in this matter. The Bill would increase, instead of diminishing, the facilities for voting. If hon. Gentlemen wished elections to be conducted with order in Ireland they would vote for additional polling-places. The clauses relating to new polling-places were precisely similar to clauses in the English Bill, except where concessions had been made to Irish Liberal Members.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had not supposed the Bill was anything but a simple Registration Bill. The House ought not to consider the circumstances of England and Ireland as being alike. In England the magistrate would exercise his power with respect to additional polling-places as a matter of business; but in Ireland party feeling ran so high as to make it highly undesirable to give this power to the magistrates without some check. He hoped the Government would withdraw this portion of the Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, he could assure the Irish Members that there had been no intention on the part of the Government to cause them any inconvenience. He suggested that the discussion on the subject of the polling-places could be taken much better in Committee than on the Motion that the Speaker do leave the Chair.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, that as the Irish Reform Bill did not touch the county franchise he could not see why the Government had thought it necessary to interfere with the question of polling-places in a Bill which he had supposed to be merely a Registration Bill. At present application could be made at Quarter Sessions for an increase in the number of the polling-places. He thought the Chief Secretary for Ireland ought to give some explanation before the House was asked to go into Committee.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that perhaps it might facilitate matters if he now offered a few remarks by way of explanation. He believed he could satisfy the House that there was an absolute necessity for the clauses which provided facilities for increasing the number of polling-places. As the law stood at present it was impossible to get additional polling-places in Ireland, no matter how general and how just the demand for them might be. That had been decided on several occasions, in accordance with the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown. The alteration he proposed was not one in the law, but merely a provision to make the existing law workable. By the 13 & 14  Vict. Vict. Vict. 1490 "We are of opinion that the Privy Council ought not now to make the proposed orders, involving as they do a division of baronies. We think that the making of such orders would cause very great confusion and embarrassment, by constituting new polling-places for barony divisions without any machinery being in existence for making out separate lists of voters for each division before an election may take place for the county in which the divided barony is situate. The Act of Parliament, 27 & 28  Vict. "THOMAS O'HAGAN. "JAMES A. LAWSON. "EDWARD SULLIVAN."
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN : What is the date?
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, it was dated
 1491 1492 Dublin Gazette.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he thought the speech of the noble Earl was the strongest
 1493
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think the best way to advance the Business would be for us to go into Committee without further delay. If there are on our part any of the deep-laid plots that the right hon. Gentleman opposite supposes, the scrutiny of the
 1494
 MR. COGAN  said, it would be a great inconvenience if just on the eve of a General Election the polling-places throughout Ireland were changed. But the great objection to the plan was that it was a surprise, no intimation on the subject of these polling-places having been given on the introduction of the Bill.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : I stated distinctly on that occasion that provision would be made for additional polling-places.
 MR. COGAN  said, that the no mention of them would be found in the report of the noble Earl's speech, probably on account of the very late hour in the morning at which the noble Earl addressed the House. He trusted that the House would come to a clear decision on these clauses before going into Committee. It was clear that the most strenuous opposition would be given to the third part of the Bill, and as practical men they ought to consider that at this period of the Session great powers and facilities were given to an Opposition to defeat any measure of which they disapproved. Those powers had been exercised already on another Bill, and if they were driven to exercise them on this Bill very serious consequences might ensue.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he hoped the House would follow the advice of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, and go into Committee; but he rose to call attention to two preliminary points on which he thought the whole discussion in Committee would turn. The two points were these. In the first place, his right hon. and learned Friend objected not so much to legislation on this matter as that the clauses referring to it were in the wrong Bill. The Government had had the opinion of counsel before them for four years, recommending a change in the law; but the clauses making the change ought, as in the English Bill, to have been placed in the Reform Bill, and not in the Registration Bill. The other point was that if these clauses were to appear in the Registration Bill the Government ought to have given Notice of their introduction. But the Bill was allowed to be read a second time without being printed, because it was supposed that it would be strictly confined to the subject which was represented by its title; but when the Bill was printed they found to their surprise that it referred
 1495
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought the House should not come to any hasty conclusion with regard to principles which might have a vital effect on the character of the Bill. It seemed to him that if this Bill contained any lingering remnant of the old system of favouritism and ascendancy, it was time for that House, which represented the people of the United Kingdom, to put an end to it. The object of the clauses he understood to be to give the landlords power to bring their tenants like serfs to the poll. Now, if that were so, he asked the House to pause before adopting them. He implored the House to consider that this was but a remnant of powers attaching in past times to property as disconnected with labour and the rights of industry, and that it was now time to put an end to them all. He would support the proposition of the right hon. and learned Member for Portarlington (Mr. Lawson). He would never be satisfied till the Union was made complete, and Ireland enjoyed all the rights and all the liberties of England.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, the present would be a good opportunity to ask whether the Government intended to persevere with the third part of the Bill? Several hon. Gentlemen took a great interest in the question which stood nest on the Paper (the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill), and it might be convenient to them to know if that Bill was
 1496
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he wished to make an appeal to the Government as to the necessity of taking some steps to secure greater facilities than had commonly been given heretofore for the registration of voters belonging to the working classes. By the Act of last Session they had in towns greatly extended the bounds of electoral privileges, more especially by the concession of the franchise to lodgers. But from what reached him he feared that this boon would be rendered useless, unless the Government would either introduce a measure or give directions to the Revising Barristers as to the time at which the Revision Courts should be held. It was plain that those who lived by their labour could not afford to hang about a Revision Court for the greater part of a day, or of more days than one, to secure their claims being admitted; and, if they were in consequence denied their promised share of enfranchisement, would not a feeling inevitably arise that hopes had been held out to them that were not meant to be realized? He was sure that this was not in the intention of any party in that House; and therefore he trusted that he might be pardoned for making a suggestion which, if acted on, he trusted would tend to prevent dissatisfaction or distrust arising. The Revision Courts were to be held in September; and at that season of the year there could be no possible objection to their sitting in the evening from six till eight for the purpose of hearing the claims of lodgers. He would suggest that whenever a Revising Barrister was called upon by a sufficient number of persons, say fifty or 100, to hold his Court on alternate days till eight o'clock in the evening he should be bound to do so. When the ordinary day's work was done the frugal and careful man would thus have an opportunity of making good his claim, which he otherwise could not be expected to do. He (Mr. Torrens) put it to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Treasury whether he could do anything more generally acceptable, more considerate, or more just, than to act upon the suggestion which
 1497
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he did not know what the law might be in England, but in Ireland it was competent to a Revising Barrister to sit to any hour, and he himself, when he was a Revising Barrister, in his younger days, had on one occasion sat till ten o'clock.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  suggested that the scale of remuneration should be fixed by the Lord Lieutenant or the Law Officers, instead of by the Revising Barrister, to whom the duty was a very invidious one.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, that the Government could not tell what the clerk's duties had been, and might give too much or too little, while the Barrister knew exactly to what he was entitled.
 MR. LAWSON  said, that this clause, which made it a misdemeanour for anyone who was an occupier to have himself rated as a lodger, created a new misdemeanour, and was not in either the English or the Scotch Bills.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  could only express his surprise and regret that the clause had been proposed to be omitted. He thought the Committee would not wish that those who were entitled to claim as occupiers should also claim as lodgers. The clause could be inconvenient only to those who were desirous of setting up fictitious claims.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he must object to the clause, which made the offence of making a false declaration to get on the register a misdemeanour. Why should a clause of that kind be introduced into the Irish Bill when it was not in the English Bill?
 MR. VANCE  said, the lodger franchise was a new franchise. It was well known that much stir was now making in the city of Dublin to take every advantage of it. It was stated by the correspondent of  The Times, 1498
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, be could now see whence the clause originated. It appeared from the observations of the hon. Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance) that objections were entertained in certain quarters to a lodger franchise for the city of Dublin. The clause appeared to be framed solely with reference to that class of voters.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the clause contained two distinct and incongruous propositions. It ought to be divided into two clauses, and he thought it would be impossible for the Committee to pass it in its present shape. The first part enacted that no person rated as an occupier should claim to be placed on the register as a lodger; the second part said that a person making a false claim as a lodger should be guilty of a misdemeanour. The first part was open to objection, because a man might be wrongly rated as an occupier. To the second part, the objections were insurmountable. The Committee ought to proceed on the principle of equity and equality with regard to all persons claiming the franchise. All the reasons for providing against fraudulent claims on the part of the lodger were equally applicable to the case of the leaseholder and freeholder.
 MR. SYNAN  said, he objected to the clause, which he believed to be due to the oracular interference of the hon. Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance).
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, there would be no difficulty in dealing with the two parts of the clause separately if the Committee desired it. It was manifest that the lodger clause required peculiar safeguards, which he could not but suppose hon. Members, who were in favour of purity of election, were anxious to see provided. The object, then, of the first part of the clause was to make rating as an occupier conclusive evidence that the person was not a lodger, so that a man who was rated as an occupier could not come forward and say, "It is true I have not paid the rates which according to the
 1499
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, some hon. Gentlemen seemed to entertain a perfect horror of the lodger class. He did not see how a person duly rated could claim as a lodger, for a lodger must reside in some part of a house occupied by another party. He thought that to meet a danger of so problematical a character as the one supposed, it would be most unwise to apply this new and exceptional legislation to Ireland. He strongly objected to the second part of the clause, which created a new crime, and did not see why the penalty should apply to lodgers and not to other claimants for the franchise.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the lodger qualification was a perfectly unique one and would be fruitful of fraud. So far from wishing to see the provision limited to Ireland he should like to see it extended to England, and so far from its being unnecessary, it was only analogous to the proposals made on the other side of the House with respect to the declarations required from candidates. Every precaution ought to be taken against fraudulent attempts to obtain votes.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he saw that the Government attached importance to the first part of the clause. Though he thought it a great mistake to introduce legislation of the kind proposed into a Bill of this character, yet he desired, out of deference to the views of (he Government, to suggest the introduction of the word "duly." The first part of the clause would then run thus—"No person duly rated as the occupier of any house or premises shall be registered in respect of being a lodger." With respect, however, to the latter portion of the clause, he would remind the Committee that it was a distinct stigma, not only upon lodgers as a class, but on the Irish lodgers as compared with all others.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he saw no objection to the introduction of the word "duly." He would observe that in Ireland the lists were taken from the rate books, and no one could get on them without being duly rated.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, it was all very well to talk about extending these provisions to England, but the English Bill could not be re-opened. He did not wish—and he thought it came with a bad grace from the noble Earl the Chief Secretary for Ireland and the Attorney General for Ireland—to brand their countrymen with a desire to get on the register by corrupt practices. If the clause were not extended to England, why should it be applied to Ireland?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he objected to the imposition of a new penalty, and to the attempt to fix on Irish lodgers the crime of misdemeanour. Instead of increasing the list of crimes it was most desirable to diminish the number. The voters under the Reform Bill would be enormously increased. In his own constituency the number would be increased four-fold, and it was not likely they would be willing to be convicted of misdemeanour. He protested against the doctrine of the Attorney General for Ireland which made that a crime in Ireland which was not an offence in England.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he thought there was some force in the objection, and he would consent to leave out the latter part of the clause, which made a false declaration a misdemeanour.
 MR. LAWSON  said, that as the clause was worded he apprehended that it might preclude an appeal. He thought the words stating that the evidence should be such as was satisfactory to the chairman or Revising Barrister should be struck out. He moved to leave out all the words after the word "claim."
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, the law of registration in Ireland was different from that in England. In England a claimant would be obliged to bring forward some evidence of his claim. In Ireland any one who made a claim was put on the electoral roll of the borough or county as the case might be, unless his claim was objected to. A case had occurred in which the Revising Barrister erased a name which was not objected to. On appeal the late Judge Perrin ordered the name to be placed on the register. It was therefore necessary, as a large number of claims would be made by lodgers, to place the law by a clause of this kind substantially on the same footing as that in England.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that the noble Earl was quite correct in his statement of the law on the point. A roan could register himself for every one of the thirty-two counties by sending in a claim i for that purposes, and if his claim was not objected to he would have a vote in; each of those counties. He thought the noble Earl would do well to bring up a clause to alter the law in that respect.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he had heard of a case in which a man had succeeded in getting himself on the register for eighteen counties without any real qualification.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he believed it was a fact that one individual had claimed to vote in twenty counties, and that he had actually got on the registers of eighteen and voted in five. He made out his claims by means of maps and documents in the Landed Estates Court.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would move, in order to make the operation of the clause general with regard to all claimants, whether lodger or other, to omit the words "in respect to the occupation of lodgings."
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that they had now come to the objectionable part of the Bill—the clauses for establishing new polling-places—and these clauses he proposed to strike out. In 1865 he assisted the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth (Sir Robert Peel)—who was at that time Chief Secretary for Ireland—in the preparation of a Bill to; remove the very difficulties in respect of increasing the number of polling-places which the noble Earl now proposed to remove by this and the next twelve or thirteen clauses of the Bill. The rejection of that Bill was moved, and was carried by a factious majority of 2, and it was a curious fact that the noble Earl the present Chief Secretary and the hon. and gallant Member for the Queen's County (General Dunne) voted with the majority on that occasion. This fact showed that if there were any defect in the law, his side of the House was not answerable for its continuance. The present Government were in Office two years, why had not they thought of amending the law before, and not reserve the
 1502
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the hon. and learned Baronet had made an appeal to him of a peculiar kind; for, though conceived in an amicable spirit, it was founded on a threat of a very elaborate character. He had no doubt that if an opportunity presented itself his noble Friend (the Earl of Mayo) would give a sufficient answer to the attack which the hon. and learned Baronet had made upon him with respect to the Bill of 1865. It was quite clear from the last expression of opinion on the part of the hon. and learned Baronet that he was influenced at the present time by personal reminiscences of a peculiar nature, though he (Mr. Disraeli) could not withstand the conviction that as the discussion went on the hon. and learned Baronet would come to the conclusion that to pursue the course he had just announced would not tend to advance Public Business, nor to raise the hon. and learned Baronet's character for learning and good temper. He trusted there would be a full and complete discussion of these clauses. If they could not bear such discussion, of course they would not be carried; but he could not bring himself to the belief that the House would witness from the hon. and learned Baronet or any of his friends that exhibition of Parliamentary tactics which had been just referred to.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that he had been accused of inconsistency because he voted against the Bill of 1865, and he had done so because at the time there were special objections to that Bill, which was merely brought forward for a party object, and not on any principle. He could only say that the hon. and learned Baronet, who was one of the promoters of the Bill, had adopted a most singular method of proving his consistency on the present occasion by voting against it, when no one knew better than he did the necessity for some means of preventing violence at the ensuing elections.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that his Bill did not deal with the question of jurisdiction. It had left the appointment of polling-places with the Quarter Session and the Lord Lieutenant and Privy Council.
 MR. AGAR-ELLIS  said, the present law had worked well except in one particular, which was not at all touched by the present Bill.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he concluded that the hon. Member could not have been in the House at the time he made his opening statement. He would therefore repeat that, according to the opinions of the Law Advisers both of the late and the present Governments, the existing law was totally inoperative, and that it would be unsafe and improper for the Privy Council to add to the number of polling-places in Ireland on application from any quarter.
 COLONEL GREVILLE-NUGENT  said, that these clauses had taken Members for Ireland by surprise, and they had not had the opportunity of consulting their constituents with regard to them. He objected to these clauses being included in the Bill, and begged to move that the Chairman be ordered to report Progress.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he did not deny that difficulties existed with respect to increasing the number of polling-places in Ireland; but he would suggest that the best course for the Government to pursue would be to withdraw the clauses relating to jurisdiction, and on the Report to bring up new clauses to remove the technical difficulties referred to. He had no objection to remedy existing defects in the system, but these clauses would make a very serious change in the tribunals by which the matters were to be decided. It would make the mere  ipse dixit
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he was mistaken in supposing that the authority of the Privy Council would be affected. The Bill, with the Amendment of which he had given Notice, would not deprive the Privy Council of any control it at present possessed. He might add that he was quite willing to accept the Amendment of which Notice had been given by the right hon. and learned Member for Portarlington (Mr. Lawson), which perhaps was couched in terms more clear and explicit than his own. The only alteration proposed to be made in the law was that in respect to the Special Sessions. A great deal had been said about altering the law in Ireland from that which it was in England; but it was remarkable how hon. Members opposite, when it suited them, could at one time argue that the peculiar circumstances of Ireland rendered necessary a different law for that country from that in England; and at another insist upon the same legislation for Ireland as had been established in the other parts of the United Kingdom. The simple proposition now was, that Special Sessions for the purpose of appointing polling-places in Ireland should be convened. He maintained that this mode of proceeding—namely, by Special Sessions, was a vast improvement of the law, and infinitely superior in the way of publicity to the old mode of proceeding by Quarter Sessions, even if the latter were practicable in the present instance. When hon. Gentlemen exhibited such an ardent desire to have the same law in this respect for England and Ireland they evidently forgot what was the law in England, which was that upon which he had based his first proposition. He had shown that in Ireland there was a great want of polling-places. For example, in the county of Donegal, voters had sometimes to travel twenty-five or thirty Irish miles, and in the counties of Cork and Waterford to travel also immense distances for the purpose of recording votes. The principle of multiplying the polling-places was admitted by all parties. He confessed he was lost in amazement to find a party movement now made to defeat the carrying out of that principle, of which, he believed, every man in Ireland having an interest in peace and the proper conduct of elections would express his approval, if asked to give his candid opinion. He could not conceive any party object to be gained by this proposal. They had a General Election coming on, when the
 1505
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he would repeat an anecdote he had heard, which he thought would have a bearing upon this question. In the county of Leicester a question arose at the last election in respect to polling-places, and it turned out that a Committee of Justices, on whoso recommendation new polling-places had been created, was constituted precisely of the same gentlemen who formed, a few weeks before, the Election Committee of one of the candidates. Those circumstances having excited extraordinary interest in Leicestershire, a legal opinion on the present state of the English law with regard to polling-places was obtained, to this effect—that although under the Act of last year the justices were enabled for the first time, contrary to the provision of the former law, to divide their counties into polling districts, nevertheless that process having taken place no further change could be made except by a process identical with the Irish mode—namely, by means of petition from the justices in Quarter Sessions to the Privy Council. It was because the noble Earl proposed seriously to alter that system that he and other Irish Members opposed the provision. If the Government were unwilling to acquiesce in his (Mr. C. Fortescue's) reasonable proposition, he hoped that the Committee would at once divide upon the clause, and with that view he would ask his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Greville-Nugent) to withdraw his Amendment that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he wished to explain the state of things in Leicestershire during the last election, which had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last. Many complaints had been made as to the distances which some of the electors had to travel in order to reach the polling-places. It was found that serious inconveniences had arisen to all parties concerned, and scenes of tumult and disorder had been created by mobs of roughs—but from no political motives whatever—in consequence of the want of a sufficient number of polling-places. The magistrates remedied the inconvenience by creating polling-places within five miles of every village; but nothing like party feel-
 1506
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was of opinion that this matter being intimately connected with questions of class and party, should be handled with some tenderness. He was sorry that the noble Earl had designated the opposition to the clause a party move. A very large portion of Irish Members—who had the best means of judging—regarded the proposed alteration as of a serious character, and believed that it would act injuriously upon the conduct of the coming elections in Ireland; and the defect existing, as the noble Earl ha6 stated, in the present law was no justification for it, since all parties would be willing to co-operate in removing that defect, and it had been shown that that could be done without resorting to the sweeping change proposed by the Government. Whether the proposal was an improvement or not was not the question, for the matter could not be fairly discussed under present circumstances, Irish Members having had no notice that it would be raised, beyond a fugitive sentence uttered by the noble Earl at two o'clock in the morning, which naturally was not reported in the newspapers. During the passage of the English Registration Bill the noble Earl, being asked to produce this measure, said he was reserving it till that Bill was disposed of, a statement which implied that the entire issue depended on the English Bill. Even if the proposal were a good one it ought not to be brought forward in the last week of a Session, and he felt bound to protest against it.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was quite willing to accept the proposition of the right hon. Member for Louth (Mr.Chichester Fortescue) if it could be shown to be practicable. He had been surprised, on an allusion being made to the impending election, to hear a derisive cheer from the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) and some of his Friends, as if they had discovered some secret motive for the clause. Why, all those arrangements for registration had reference to the impending election, the desire to advance which on the part of the House ns much
 1507
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that a special meeting of the county and a Special Quarter Sessions would probably be attended by the same magistrates. He was anxious that the arrangements should be made by the entire magistracy of a county, so that the magistrates of a particular section of it might not bring about objectionable arrangements. His own county had made a demand for additional polling-places, and if they were of any utility at all they should be provided in time for the next election.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite had misunderstood his proposal. He objected to the proposal of a Special Sessions, because his noble Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland had failed to give a sufficient reason for it, and because it would create those Sessions as a permanent tribunal. He objected to meetings at this particular period of the year. His proposal was to remedy the technical defects which had been alluded to by a measure like that introduced by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth (Sir Robert Peel) and the hon. and learned Baronet the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen). He was wholly opposed to the exceptional legislation proposed.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he must maintain that the inconvenience caused by an insufficient number of polling-places, and the scenes of violence which were likely to occur if the defect was not removed, called for exceptional legislation. In reference to the objections urged as to the late period at which this proposal was brought forward, he wished to explain that until he received an application from the comity of Donegal the question had not been brought prominently under his notice, and though it had been mentioned incidentally, he was not till then aware that such great evils existed. On looking into the
 1508
 MR. MONSELL  said, he thought it was an unwise thing to take the period just before a General Election to make new arrangements with regard to polling-places. But what he and those who agreed with him honestly objected to was this—and the noble Earl must feel the force of the objection—that for an election which, according to the noble Lord himself, would be fought with peculiar vehemence, it was proposed to place the initiative with, regard to a change of poll-
 1509
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he believed that the Bill had been introduced not to protect the voters, but to enable the landlords to poll their tenants against their will. So high did party spirit run in Ireland at election times that magistrates were not allowed to act at elections unless they got a fresh commission; and yet it was into the hands of these very magistrates that the noble Lord now proposed to put a power which might be used with the most crushing effect against the unfortunate tenantry.
 VISCOUNT HAMILTON  said, that at the last contested election in the county of Donegal, when a number of voters who had travelled about twenty-eight or twenty-nine miles arrived within a mile of Letterkenny they were met by a ruffianly mob, who destroyed their cars. Applications had at different times since then been made to have new and convenient polling-places provided, but the Privy Council always returned the same answer—that under the existing law it was impossible. He hoped, therefore, the Committee would consent to give the magistrates the power provided in the Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, that the discussion had commenced in a very angry tone. They had been told by one hon. Member that the landlords took their tenants like serfs to the poll; another hon. Gentleman had said that he would divide on every line of the Bill; but the discussion appeared to be about to take another tone when the right hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) suggested that two clauses should be brought up for the purpose of meeting the admitted difficulty of the case. It had been admitted then, by an authority than whom none was higher, that there was a defect in the law which required to be remedied. Now, he maintained that it was right that au authority should exist somewhere—that a power should be vested in some body, to create polling-places. There existed a technical difficulty in the way of providing these polling-places, and a remedy was
 1510 Will.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, those who i thought that landlords were desirous of driving their tenants to the poll as if they had no will of their own would entertain a different opinion if they knew more of the North of Ireland; for landlords exercised nothing but a moral influence, acquired by residence and good deeds among their tenants. Would it not be better to take the polling-places to the electors than to incur the heavy expense of taking electors in cars to polling-booths, in localities where they were not known? The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) made a proposal but little different from that of the noble Earl; and he was inclined to accept it until he heard the second explanation. If the right hon. Gentleman would promise to support the Government on the Report in providing additional places for the next election he would not vote with the Government on the 34th clause; but he must do so in the absence of such an undertaking.
 MR. VANCE  said, he regretted that the right hon. Member for Louth, who was acquainted with the working of the present law, did not give Notice of clauses to remedy it. The Bill would do what was wanted; and if the right hon. Gentleman was not able to propose what would equally accomplish
 1511
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that such anomalies would not be tolerated in England as existed in Ireland with regard to the distances voters had to travel to the poll. There was an increasing dislike to the long journeys; and the lower the franchise was reduced, the more necessary was it to bring the poll to the voter. In this matter, he asked, why was the urban voter to have a privilege denied to the agricultural voter? The former could reach the poll by walking a short distance from his home; and why should the latter be compelled to make the sacrifice involved in travelling several miles?
 MR. LEFROY  said, he hoped the right hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) would agree to an arrangement by which a sufficient number of polling-places might be provided for the protection of the voters in Ireland.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, there was a clause in the Scotch Act giving the sheriff the power of increasing the number of polling-places in any district, so that not more than 300 need vote at one booth. He did not see why a different law should be applied to Ireland.
 THE EARL OF MAYO : Sir, it is quite clear we must take it that the decision at which the Committee has just arrived is conclusive upon the subject of providing additional polling-places for Ireland at the next election, and therefore I propose to withdraw the whole of Part III. of the Bill. In so doing, however, I must say distinctly that, in the event of scenes of violence and bloodshed occurring at the ensuing election in Ireland, the responsibility will rest not with us, but with the hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite, who, in defiance of every principle of their own, and in defiance of every vote they have given with regard to the provision of additional polling-places in England and Scotland, have voted against the clause which was intended to provide facilities for polling in Ireland. Of course it will be the duty of the Government to endeavour to do everything in their power to preserve
 1512
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : Sir, the noble Earl (the Earl of Mayo) has prophesied the most frightful consequences as the result of the vote just given, and he has chosen to throw upon us the responsibility of those consequences. We are quite ready lo bear whatever responsibility properly belongs to us; but we decline to acquit the Government of any blame which may hereafter attach to it in consequence of neglecting until a few days before our separation to take means to prevent what the noble Earl fears, but which I, for one, do not. But the noble Earl's remarks are not consistent with his own statement of an hour ago, when he seemed to anticipate that the number of applications would be very few indeed. [The Earl of MAYO: Not very many.] The noble Earl said the number of cases of difficulty which had arisen were few, and that they had mostly arisen in the quieter districts—some places in the north, I believe. Now, with respect to the Midland, Western, and Southern regions of Ireland, I am convinced that in the present political state of the country there is no reason to fear any danger unless extravagant, unreasonable, and improper means are taken to prevent the great mass of electors from recording their votes in accordance with their wishes. If attempts are made to compel the large body of the Roman Catholic voters to support the Established Church in Ireland contrary to their feelings, difficulties may, indeed, arise. It may be hardly credible in this country that an attempt could be made to maintain Protestant ascendancy by means of the Roman Catholics' votes; but I am afraid we cannot allow ourselves to hope that the attempt will not be made.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the noble Earl ought to have been the very last person to throw responsibility on the Opposition when he knew he had voted against the Bill of 1865 which, if it had passed would have prevented any difficulty upon the point now before them.
 MR. VANCE  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman opposite was bound to do something to remedy the evil which he admitted to exist, and it would be very unsatisfactory if Parliament were prorogued without effectual measures being taken. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to attempts to maintain Protestant as-
 1513
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he wished to explain that no Gentleman on that side of the House had objected to the creation of additional polling-places, all they wanted was that such places should be appointed in the same way as they had hitherto been.
 MR. LAWSON  said, that this clause cast upon the Lord Lieutenant the duty of appointing additional Revising Barristers, He (Mr. Lawson) thought it would be well to amend the clause in such a way that the English practice should be followed. He therefore begged to move, in page 21, line 26, to leave out "the Lord Lieutenant or other Chief Governor or Governors of Ireland," and insert "any Judge of Her Majesty's Superior Courts of Common Law in Dublin sitting as vocation Judge for the despatch of chamber business." He also thought that such appointments should be made only if they should prove necessary.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, he objected to the alteration. The public had hitherto exhibited no want of confidence in the appointments made by the Lords Lieutenant, and those appointments had this advantage, that whereas the appointments made by a Judge who might be a strong partizan could not be challenged, the Lords Lieutenant were responsible to Parliament for the exercise of their patronage. In some places it might be necessary under the peculiar circumstances of this year to appoint additional Revising Barristers, though he hoped that it would not be necessary so far as Dublin was concerned. It was not the intention of the Government to make any appointment until the revision had progressed some way, nor unless it was shown that the present officials would be unable to get through the work in time. But if some assistance were needed, care would be taken that the selection should not be confined to men of one particular party.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he would not, after the statement made by the noble Earl, press his Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. WARREN)  said, he must oppose the clause. The time of the Revising Barristers would, he thought, be too much taken up by long speeches from counsel.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to make an appeal to the right hon. Gentleman at the Head of the Government as to the expediency of proceeding further with the measure. It had already, he said, been discussed with great minuteness on the Motion for going into Committee, and it was quite evident from the opposition it had met with, that there would be a lengthened discussion on the clauses. That being so, and seeing that the Bill must also lead to considerable discussion in the other House, he did not think there was any hope that it could be carried to a satisfactory conclusion in the present Parliament. It should be borne in mind, too, that those who opposed the Bill in its previous stage represented no less than 10,000,000 of the inhabitants of the country, and that those whose interests would be affected in the matter would not be content unless they were heard by counsel against it in "another place." Taking into account, besides, the great amount of business which still remained to be disposed of—among other measures the Electric Telegraphs Bill, which would give rise to a great deal
 1515
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the question was one which affected, not only the interests of the metropolis, but of the country at large, inasmuch as the Bill, if passed, would make the importation of foreign cattle difficult for all future time. He objected to legislation being pressed on so important a question at so late a period of the Session, and the proper course was, in his opinion, to postpone the present Bill, and to institute an inquiry into the whole subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford), in the appeal which he has made to me, was very inconsistent. He tells us that this Bill was very recently discussed with great minuteness in this House, and he asks us on that account not to proceed with the Committee upon it. But is it not the proper inference to draw from the very minuteness of the discussion which has already arisen that our proceedings in Committee will be greatly facilitated in consequence, and that, coming to a subject which we have fully mastered, we shall be likely to make more progress than under ordinary circumstances we could fairly anticipate? I am hound, also, to say that I cannot express any sympathy with the general views which the hon. Gentleman has advanced on this subject. He refers to the Paper containing the order of Business, and tells us that if we do not go on with this measure we may go on with the Electric Telegraphs Bill; but he must know that it is necessary, especially at this period of the Session, to arrange the Business before us with some adherence to the plans which have been laid down, and that the Electric Telegraphs Bill has been fixed for half past four to-morrow, in order that the Committee upon it might not be broken. Therefore, if we do not go on with the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill, we cannot go on with the Electric Telegraphs Bill without deranging all that has been settled and disappointing many hon. Members who have left the House on the faith of the arrangement made. To agree, therefore, to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman—which I can by no means
 1516
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that the Telegraphs Bill stood next on the Paper after this Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI : Yes; but in conversation on Saturday it was arranged that it should be taken as the first Order to-morrow.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he was not aware of that; but the right hon. Gentleman had not referred to the difficulties which this Bill would have to encounter in the other House.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am responsible for the arrangement of Business in this House, and in its arrangement I endeavour to consult the convenience of Members; but I am not responsible for the management of Business in "another place." It is not very long ago since comments were made to the effect that "another House" was not occupied so much as the country would desire; and therefore I think no one here
 1517
 MR. AYRTON  said, he should not have risen to continue this discussion, but that hon. Members on his side of the House were cut short on a former night by hon. Gentlemen opposite, who declined to allow them to discuss the principle. They declined to allow hon. Gentlemen to address the House, and yet they declined to allow the House to adjourn; while they talked of sitting up all night, or sleeping on the Benches, of refreshing themselves, and stimulating themselves to oppose the adjournment of the discussion. When the Bill was formerly discussed he (Mr. Ayrton) urged that it was unnecessary, because a Bill had been passed last Session on this subject which had been unanimously adopted as a compromise between conflicting opinions; and they were told at the time that it would be satisfactory. But in answer to his remarks he was told by the First Minister of the Crown that that Bill, so far as the metropolis was concerned, was a dead letter, because the local authorities would not put the Act in force. He (Mr. Ayrton) had since applied to the local authorities, and he was positively assured by them that they had received no communication whatever from the Government requiring them to carry the Act into effect. Fearing their memory might be at fault he desired them to search among their records, which they did, but could find no authority on the subject. Now, he wished to know from the Government if they would produce the Correspondence, or state in what form it had taken place—whether verbally or in writing. The present Bill contained no compulsory powers; so that even if it were passed it would not put the Government in a better position as regarded the taking of land than that in which they stood under the Act of last year. If they could not get land by agreement, they would have to come to Parliament next year for compulsory powers to take it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not help thinking the tactics adopted by the other side in regard to that Bill somewhat peculiar, if, as the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) now said, the Privy Council already had power to do all that that Bill would accomplish, why did the hon. and learned Gentleman not inform the House of that on the second reading? The
 1518
 MR. DENT  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken that no discussion was taken on the second reading of the Bill. He had risen to make a remark personal to himself. He thought he had reason to complain of a speech lately made elsewhere by the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Read), in which his conduct in opposing that measure was unfairly denounced and characterized as rendering him unfit to be a member of the Royal Agricultural Society. The hon. Member had stated that he (Mr. Dent) had always taken a course opposed to agricultural interests. Now, he appealed to the House whether that was the case. He had never spoken in that House as representing the Council of the Agricultural Society, and he thought it was unfair of the hon. Member to make the statement he had. His object as a Member of Parliament was not to look at public questions in their bearing upon the interests of one particular class only, but as they affected the community at large; and for that reason he had opposed the present Bill. On the same principle he was ready to vote for Amendments in the measure which would make it less onerous and less oppressive.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he trusted the right
 1519 1520 ad nauseam
 MR. KENDALL  said, that the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) and his Friends had done their work in attempting to talk out this Bill, and had done it well. But business was
 1521
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he thought that the matter ought to be looked at from a business point of view. Regarding it in that light, the First Minister of the Crown must see that there were no means of giving effect to the Bill. He found that last year 177,000 head of cattle, and 500,000 head of sheep came into London, and that the maximum charges imposed under this Bill for the importation of these animals would do little more than pay the interest on the money which the Bill proposed the Commissioners should borrow for the purpose of forming the markets. The Commissioners to be appointed to carry out this Bill—the Corporation of London having refused to accept it—would have no security to offer for the capital necessary for the erection of the market, except the tolls. The Bill would therefore be inoperative and illusory. ["Oh!"] How many hon. Members opposite would lend money on the security of these tolls? Not one would lend a sixpence.
 MR. R. W. DUFF  said, this was a case of the metropolitan Members against the country. The metropolitan Members were making an attempt to talk out the Bill, and it was the duty of the country Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House not to countenance such a state of things. One of the principal arguments against the Bill was that it would raise the price of meat. So far as the metropolis was concerned, it was probable that the effect of the Bill would be to raise to some extent the price of meat; but the Legislature must not sacrifice the interests of the whole country to those of the metropolis, large as those interests were. Mr. Dudley Baxter, who had obtained some reputation as a statistician, bad published a pamphlet showing that only one-twelfth of the whole
 1522
 MR. MELLY  said, he would admit that the case was one of town against country; but he had looked at the figures of the late division, and he thought they would be a sufficient answer to the assertion of the hon. Member who had just sat down that the Bill was only opposed by metropolitan Members. He found that the 82 Members who voted against the Bill on the late division and the 25 Members who paired against it represented 457,099 electors, and 10,204,013 of the population, It was notorious that the Bill was opposed by the representatives of most of the large communities. Perhaps there had never been a question on which they had been more unanimous than in their opposition to this Bill. This was not a question, therefore, merely between the metropolitan population of 3,000,000 and the rest of the country. It was not a little remarkable that the Members for Liverpool and other Conservative representatives of large towns were absent from the division, possibly as arrangements had been entered into excusing their absence. The representatives of the manufacturing population of the metropolis, of the Midland counties, and of the North of England repudiated the Bill, and it was objected to by the large employers of labour, who were responsible for the happiness of those they employed. The
 1523
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, that the hon. Member who had just spoken said he represented the working classes; but the working classes would recollect at the coming election that it was the Conservative party, with a Conservative Chief, that first proposed the tariff under which foreign cattle were admitted into this country. He had sat in the House in 1842, and at that time not a single animal could be imported. Having voted on that occasion, with the late Sir Robert Peel, for admitting foreign cattle, and also for the repeal of the Corn Law in 1846, he repudiated the imputation that he was a Protectionist in supporting the Bill before the House.
 MR. W.E. FORSTER  said, he regretted that the appeal of the hon. Member for London (Mr. Crawford) had not been acceded to. He did not think a single Member on either side believed in the probability of this Bill being passed. It was only persisted in for the sake of a victory of country over town, and it was absurd at this period of the Session to continue a conflict having no other object. Even if the measure passed this House, evidence would be required on the subject in the other House, and it would probably be referred to a Select Committee, so that it could not become law, unless, indeed, the Prorogation were delayed for three weeks or a month. He did not believe the Prime Minister was prepared for such a proceeding, and he presumed the understanding was that to-night should be wasted and that then there should be an end of the matter. Even the hon. Member for Banffshire (Mr. R. W. Duff) had admitted that the scheme was counter to the interests of the metropolis and to political economy. If the Bill were passed it could only be by a class struggle at the end of the Session. Was it advisable to try to hurry through the House
 1524
 MR. R. W. DUFF  explained that his argument was that, in the case of police regulations, the ordinary rules of political economy must be disregarded.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he had understood the hon. Member to admit that the Bill was prejudicial to the interests of London; and that this was the case was tolerably evident from the opposition to it of all the metropolitan Members. It was true the hon. Member for Cornwall (Mr. Kendall) had described those Gentlemen as actuated by an anxiety to retain their seats; but even on this hypothesis their constituents were opposed to the measure.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he must remind hon. Gentlemen opposite that the Bill was introduced as long ago as the 5th of December, and that every possible obstruction had been thrown in its way. During the sixteen years he had sat in the House he had not witnessed such a scene as that of Thursday last, when thirty Gentlemen kept up the opposition to the Bill till three o'clock against 130 Gentlemen who supported it; that opposition, moreover, being led by two ex-Cabinet Ministers, though a much larger number of Members of their own party voted on the other side. But for an appeal made on behalf of the Speaker by an hon. Member opposite, he believed the scene would have been kept up an hour longer. It was all very well for Gentlemen opposite to urge the withdrawal of the Bill; but he hoped Members around him would sit till six o'clock in the morning, if necessary, rather than yield to these obstructive tactics.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he did not intend to enter into the question of opposing the Bill by means of time; but he must protest against the doctrine of the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel North). The hon. and gallant Member, on reflection, would not, he thought, adhere to his assertion in its full breadth. According to the accounts that had reached him of the operations of which the hon. and gallant Gentleman so much complained, they were all comprised within a single hour.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the right
 1525
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he did not regard this as a just accusation, and would like to know the hon. and gallant Gentleman's idea of justice. Was it a just accusation? He heard a Member near the hon. and gallant Gentleman say, "No, it is not," and he hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman was by this time ashamed of what he had said. [Colonel NORTH: Not at all.] He was obliged, then, to tell the hon. and gallant Gentleman that his assertion amounted to an arrogant declaration that he (Mr. Gladstone) had no right to give his vote upon a Bill in this House, for the vote he gave was upon the merits of the Bill. In any vote having reference to time or to adjournment for the sake of delaying the Bill he had taken no part whatever; and therefore, with great deference to the superior knowledge, judgment, ability, and experience of the hon. and gallant Gentleman—[ loud cries of 1526 1527
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had not intended to take up the time of the House, because it seemed to him that the arguments advanced did not apply to the question before the Committee, which was whether the Preamble should be postponed, but were rather arguments against the principle of the Bill, and should have been employed on the second reading or on the Motion for going into Committee rather than at present. But after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone), he would be scarcely showing respect to him or to the House if he did not advert to some of the points which had been referred to. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) objected on the score that they could already do, independently of the Bill, all that they desired. [Mr. AYRTON: All that you can reasonably desire.] Well, then, the hon. and learned Gentleman meant to say what they desired to do that was unreasonable. And then the hon. and learned Gentleman had found fault with the First Minister of the Crown. But the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister had never said that the Metropolitan Board of Works had cast any ob-
 1528 1529
 MR. GOSCHEN , who was received with cries of "Divide," said, hon. Members on that side of the House are in this predicament, that if they wished to discuss the measure they were met with cries of "Divide," and if they wished to adjourn at a late hour they were told they were factious. He would ask the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council on what clause it will be most expedient to discuss the general financial bearings of the question? [An hon. MEMBER: The last clause.] He would bow to the decision of the House, and discuss the matter on another clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it had been asserted that the metropolitan Members had endeavoured to talk down the representatives of the counties upon this subject. It so happened that the metropolitan Members, except the right hon. Member for the City (Mr. Goschen) and himself, had abstained from taking part in the discussion, because they desired the discussion to show, as it had done, that the question was a national one, and that the views of the majority of the people of the country were against the Bill. No doubt the representatives of counties and small boroughs connected with them were, in the present state of the representation, a majority of the House, and the proceedings on this Bill would furnish a powerful argument for the re-consideration of the representation of counties.
 SIR J. CLARKE JERVOISE  pointed out that there was no discussion on the second reading of the Bill. If there had been one thing made clear, it was the fact of the great inefficiency of the Privy Council. Nevertheless, he for one did not see how that inefficiency was to be cured by a Bill of this dangerous character. Such a proceeding was like the application of a blister over the whole body for the healing of a local irritation.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he rose to move an Amendment, the effect of which was to exempt sheep from the operation of the Bill. He was at a loss to understand why the Government proposed to place a restriction upon the importation of sheep. If there were a statutory restric-
 1530 Manchester Guardian 1531 1532
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to Order. It was not competent for any hon. Member to go into the malt tax in connection with this clause.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, it was not competent on this clause to discuss the malt tax; but it was competent for an hon. Member to refer to it in illustration of his argument.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Chambers of Agriculture had been induced to give up the malt tax and the County Financial Boards by a promise of getting the exclusion of foreign cattle. The farmer was told that the repeal of the malt tax would be inconvenient to the Government, and that the Financial Boards would displease the magistracy; but the Government would go in for cattle exclusion. Now, he (Mr. Milner Gibson) would gladly enable the farmers to exercise control over the expenditure of rates in counties; but the object of this cattle-and-sheep-exclusion scheme was to reverse the policy which let in foreign cattle to compete
 1533 s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  asked, where they were killed?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : They were killed wherever the purchaser chose to take them. If they were to be killed in Paris, they must be killed in the abattoirs. The French Government were not so unreasonable as to oppress the French people with unnecessary restrictions or impose large sacrifices on the population to benefit the agriculturists. They did not demand anything so monstrous in order to meet a temporary emergency. If a permanent law should be passed, it would never be repealed without the consent of the other House of Parliament, the Members of which were extensively engaged in that very cattle trade for whose benefit foreign cattle and sheep were to be excluded. Why were they afraid of these foreign sheep? Did they think they would introduce disease? Why, the Privy Council would not undertake the responsibility of prohibiting them. The Privy Council would not have been silent unless their advisers had told them to be so, and
 1534 1535
 MR. HENLEY  said, the difficulty of the subject was sufficiently great without the real point being smothered by matters so completely extraneous to it, as were the topics which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) had introduced into the discussion. Indeed, the way in which the right hon. Gentleman had treated the matter convinced him that he had been speaking throughout against his own conviction. The real question with which they had to deal was "aye" or "no"—were sheep liable to this disease, and could they bring it into this country? The right hon. Gentleman, losing sight of the real point in dispute, had devoted the greater part of his speech to the discussion of the question of free trade in food. The right hon. Gentleman had, however, given up the case with reference to sheep imported in the same vessels with foreign cattle; but what security was there that the sheep had not mixed with foreign cattle before they entered the ship? He had admitted that butchers going from market to market might convey the cattle plague in their clothes, and sheep had as handy clothes to convey the infection as the butchers. If the right hon. Gentleman could not prove that the means of detection in the case of cattle and sheep coming by sea were as great as those possessed by the French in the case of the cattle and sheep coming over their frontier, the whole of the fabric which the right hon. Gentleman had built up would fall to the ground. He would not himself give an opinion as to sheep having this disease; but, as far as he could form an opinion, he thought that it would be sufficient if the restriction were to apply to sheep coming over with cattle. If the right hon. Gentleman was not able to show that sheep were not liable to the disease, the whole of his arguments about the food of the people could only have been lugged in with the view to muddle the water, and keep in the background the real question, which was, whether sheep were or were not any source of
 1536
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he thought the Amendment in its present form could not be accepted. The clause originally was to apply only to sheep which came over in the same vessel with cattle; but the Committee, in consequence of a great weight of evidence, unanimously altered it be that it should apply to all sheep. Professor Spooner said that the infection could be carried in wool, and Mr. Rudkin, the Chairman of the Markets Committee, said that the great fault of the present system was that sheep could go from the metropolitan market into the country. The Committee therefore were urged to cut out the words "imported with foreign cattle." He, however, would, in consequence of the want of time, offer no objection to these words being re-inserted.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was of opinion that before the proposed Amendment of the noble Lord was adopted the noble Lord must show that sheep which were not infected could be the means of communicating the disease. It was a most monstrous proposal that, because the cattle plague was engendered in certain spots on the Continent, no sheep were to be allowed to be imported from any part of the world. The proposal was one which would have the effect of preventing the free importation of sheep, and would thus result in depreciating the value of those sent to this country to an extent which would greatly discourage that branch of trade. The area of the cattle plague was becoming more circumscribed day by day, and what right had the Government to say that there should not be free importation of sheep into the port of London, and that in fact they would create a monopoly for the advantage of English sheep breeders?
 MR. READ  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that all the veterinary evidence given before the Committee by opponents of the Bill distinctly showed that sheep transmitted the cattle plague more freely than any other agent, and were themselves subject to the cattle plague. Imported sheep also very often came with, the small-pox, and in 1866, when he had
 1537
 MR. NEATE  said, he approved the proposal of the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council to except sheep imported alone.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that the hour was not very late, that there had been no Morning Sitting that day, and that there would be no Morning Sitting to-morrow. The Committee, therefore, he thought, came to the discussion of the Bill with unusual freshness, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere with his Motion.
 MR. WATKIN  said, that no doubt there was abundant opportunity for the two par-tics in the House to discuss the question; but there was a large party deeply interested in it out-of-doors, and in order that they might know how it had been discussed, and learn the decision of the Committee, he must persevere with his Motion.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the clause under discussion, as well as those which followed it, involved important principles, and as there were many Members who desired to speak, he must appeal to the majority not to oppress the minority by insisting, contrary to all usual practice, on going on with the debate at an hour
 1538
 MR. LOCKE  said, he rose to move an Amendment, in page 2, line 15, to leave out the word "or;" and he also proposed to leave out the words from "if" to the end of the clause. If the Committee adopted the Amendment, he would be enabled to move that the Corporation should be the authority of the market, and this, be believed, would be entirely in accordance with the views of the noble Lord who had introduced the Bill. The City of London had a Committee to regulate all the markets, and as they had invariably done so to the satisfaction of the public, this market should be placed under their direction, instead of that of Commissioners, who would not understand what they were to do. The proposal of the Government to give inexperienced Commissioners the power to raise money—how they were to raise it did not appear—was very improper. Should these Commissioners become the market authorities, it would be a great failure.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that if the Amendments of which he had given Notice were carried, there could be no Commissioners, while the Corporation would not be obliged to take up the work of establishing the market.
 MR. GOSCHEN  asked why the Commissioners were left in the clause if they were not to be called upon to act; and if they were to act, how they were to be provided with funds? He believed they had been introduced into the Bill merely to place a screw upon the City. He wished to know how the Government intended to deal with this question of Commissioners? They had not yet had an explanation of the financial part of the question—not a single line of estimate. There was no precedent for Government Commissioners interfering with municipal concerns as here
 1539
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether any assurance had been given by the Corporation that they would have anything to do with this measure or were willing to act under it as the market authority? It had been said in the Common Council and in the newspapers that the Government had broken faith with the City.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  rose to reply.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is most unusual for any Member of the House to single out a Member of the House to answer a Question. I cannot answer it, because the Privy Council and not my Department is the Department of die Government that was in communication with the Corporation of London.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer as the chief Member of the Government now present, and because I saw his name on the back of the Bill.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that before the Bill went to the Committee upstairs the Corporation had intimated to the Privy Council Office by letter enclosing a formal Resolution, that they would undertake the execution of the Act. It was not true that the Government had broken faith with the City. The Corporation had furnished to the Committee a scale of tolls and a number of clauses, all of which were inserted into the Bill, except one which the Metropolitan Board succeeded in persuading the Committee to strike out. That produced a certain feeling of resentment, perhaps, in the mind of the Corporation. It was proposed to restore that clause, and then he was confident that the Corporation would undertake the execution of that Bill, and would he quite able to provide the funds requisite for the purpose. He spoke advisedly and on good grounds of authority. In fact, they had experienced considerable difficulty in dealing with two rival and jealous parties, the Metropolitan Board and the City; the City got angry with the Metropolitan Board, and a quarrel arose as to what should be done with the surplus which would accrue from the
 1540
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he was quite sure that the Corporation would not undertake the execution of the Bill if it remained in its present state. No answer had been given to the question how the Commissioners were to have funds provided for them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I thought, Sir, I gave an answer to that question the other night. I then stated that the Commissioners would have no funds to fall back upon, except the tolls; and I believe that on that security persons would lend money to the Commissioners to establish the market. We could not assist them out of the Consolidated Fund, or give them a guarantee. If the Bill were restored to its former state, so that the Corporation should have the surplus tolls, there would not be the slightest difficulty in regard to the Corporation of London undertaking the execution of the Act. I believe the Metropolitan Board of Works would be willing to undertake it if they would have a right to the surplus tolls. If the clause be restored to its original shape, the difficulty will disappear.
 MR. AYRTON : Does the right hon. Gentleman think that the tolls would be sufficient to enable the Commissioners to raise money for all the purposes of the Bill—to buy the ground, carry out the works, and give compensation?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : There has been so much misrepresentation that I must beg leave to say a word or two. I never said the Government had broken faith with the Corporation; I merely said it was stated in the Common Council and in the newspapers. I think the proposition to give the surplus tolls to the City is the worst of all that have been made. Here is a market to be supported out of the tolls, and if there be a surplus, they should be devoted to the lowering of the tolls.
 MR. LOCKE  said, if the word "or" were struck out, he would endeavour to strike out the remainder of the clause. There never was such a market authority on earth as would be created if the House carried this clause.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, that when once he heard it admitted that the population of London would suffer by this Bill, that was quite enough for him. He advised hon. Members opposite not to be the Stupid country Gentlemen to be driven before the Government. Seeing that the Commissioners were to have no means of carrying out the scheme of the market, he hoped they would see that the Government were really laughing at them. The Government had broken faith on a question of bribery, and they should adjourn to see if the City of London would accept this new offer. He therefore moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. AYRTON  thought they ought to have some explanation from the Government of how they intended to treat the Committee, because after a certain hour it was impossible for notice to be taken in the newspaper reports of what took place, and therefore no means were afforded to the public of knowing what occurred. The last thing heard of the City of London was that they had withdrawn in the Select Committee from all connection with the Bill, and he wished to know whether the Government had communicated further with the City on the subject?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that if the Motion for reporting Progress was withdrawn a division should be taken on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke). When they had passed the clause the Government would consent to report Progress.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  then moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. GOSCHEN  supported the Motion. The noble Lord (Lord John Manners) had been understood to say that the Chairman should report Progress after this division. ["No!"]
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that what his noble Friend had consented to, was that when the Committee had arrived at the end of the clause, the Chairman should then report Progress. As, however, there had been some misunderstanding on this point, and as it was now nearly two o'clock, he would not oppose the Motion to report Progress.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would appeal to his hon. Friends to give way. He thought it was useless to attempt any further Progress to-night.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that, being unwilling to take advantage of any misunderstanding, and several hon. Members having stated that they had misunderstood his noble Friend (Lord John Manners), he had thought it right that Progress should be reported. He had consequently voted in accordance with that view; but it was quite open for his hon. Friends behind him to take what course seemed to them proper.
 MR. FLOYER  said, he must point out that the misunderstanding had entailed no consequences on hon Gentlemen opposite, none of them having left the House. He could not conceive how the noble Lord could have been understood otherwise than as consenting to report Progress after the clause had been agreed to.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was surprised at his words having been misunderstood, and could only attribute it to the lateness of the hour and the length of the Sitting. A misunderstanding having, however, occurred, he hoped his hon. Friend would allow Progress to be reported, with the view of resuming the Committee on Wednesday.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he was willing that the Motion that the Chairman leave the Chair should be negatived, in order that the usual Motion to report Progress might be proposed.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, in reply, that the best Answer he could give to the hon. Member was that, according to the best information that the Government possessed, the French Government had no Monitors at Bordeaux, although they had one at Brest. One was certainly building at Bordeaux; but it was not being constructed, he understood, for the French Government.
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that he really had little to add to the remarks he made a short time since in reply to the hon. Member for Waterford upon this subject. He stated on that occasion that the Poor Law Commissioners had made, and were making, great exertions to press upon the Boards of Guardians their opinions of the question of diet, and he believed with considerable success. When
 1483
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that a full report of the occurrences to which the hon. Member referred had not reached the Government, but it certainly appeared that there had been some irregularity in the proceedings at the coroner's inquest to which he referred. With regard to the second part of the Question, as to who were the aggressors it would clearly be contrary to his duty to express any opinion upon the subject, seeing that it was likely to be made the subject of judicial investigation.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, I consider those Parochial Boards are in error which make no deductions from the gross
 1484 Vict.,
 MAJOR ANSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will afford Mr. Hale an opportunity of substantiating the complaint he has briefly made—namely, that his Rockets are manufactured in the Royal Arsenal in a manner which renders them more costly and less efficient for the Public Service?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that the works were completed, and the water would be introduced almost immediately. The reason why the water had not been introduced was that a defect had been discovered in the drainage of the Regent's Park College, and till that was made good the water could not be let in; but that defect had now been remedied. It was not intended to cover the bottom of the lake with cement.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that his attention had been called to the case alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member, and he believed the decision of the magistrate was erroneous. Sir William Atherton's Act was, he believed, still operative, and he was prepared to
 1485
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that Sir Hercules Robinson, the Governor of Ceylon, was on his way to England, and the Secretary of State for the Colonies
 1478
 MR. NEATE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, in reference to a passage in the Address recently published by Captain Pim, the Conservative Candidate for Gravesend, in which he says,—"as your Member and a Naval Officer, it would be my duty to urge upon Government (and I have every reason to hope with success), the great natural advantage your Borough possesses "— i. e
 MR. SEELY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is correct, (as stated in  The Engineer
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, By whose authority was a Queen's Plate removed this year from the Curragh to Limerick; are the Stewards of the Irish Turf Club vested with any powers to pro hibit the transfer of a Queen's Plate from the Curragh to any other locality in Ire land; and, with whom does it rest to authorize the changes of the Queen's Plates from one locality to another in Ireland?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that it was undoubtedly true that the alleged grievance existed, and it was a subject of frequent complaint. It must be recollected, however, that the post horse duty was paid really by the public, who used the post horse and carriage, so that the proprietor was re-imbursed by the amount he got from the hirer. The assessed taxes the persons referred to in the Question only paid in common with other members of the community for the luxury they enjoy.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Sir John Simeon), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been called to the system of employing soldiers in trades and callings which has been for some time pursued at Parkhurst Barracks; whether he is satisfied with the success of the experiment; and, whether he is prepared to recommend the adoption of the principle in other Depot Battalions?
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, What is the cause of the delay in the completion of the works in the inclosure in the Regent's Park, and when the same are likely to be completed; and, whether it is intended to cover the bottom of the lake with cement?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether his attention has been called to the decision of Mr. Arnold, the Police Magistrate at Westminster, on Thursday last, in the case of a woman brought before him for plucking a plant in Chelsea Hospital Garden, that it was no offence, as plants and flowers were not protected by law; and, if this is so, what protection there is for the plants and flowers in the Public Parks which are maintained at so great expense?
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Relative to an alleged irregularity in the proceedings of a Coroner's Inquest which has been lately held in the town of Monaghan; and if any information has reached him respecting the origin of the affray which led to that inquiry, and who were the aggressors?
 MR. COGAN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to a Return presented to the House on the 3rd of May from the Poor Law Commissioners' Office in Dublin, from which it appears there are seventy-eight unions in Ireland in which a third meal is not jot allowed to the several classes of healthy inmates of the workhouse, and that there are fifty-five unions in which the workhouse inmates or certain classes of them are not provided with shoes and stockings, notwithstanding the strong remonstrances of the Poor Law Commissioners against the continuance of these practices as being calculated to be injurious to the health of the inmates; and, whether the Poor Law Commissioners intend to take any and what steps to secure a general uniform observance in the workhouses of their recommendations on the subject?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If he is aware that persons in the
 1476 s s
 MR. DU CANE , in reply, said, he gave an answer to this Question a few evenings since, when the last Vote for the Navy Estimates was under discussion. He then stated that the coaling arrangements by means of pontoons at Portland were merely temporary. If the hon. Gentleman would look to the Navy Estimates he would find in Vote 11 that £30,000 was taken for the coaling arrangements at Portland, £2,000 of which had been taken this year for the commencement of the works. The Admiralty were endeavouring to enter into arrangements with the Great Western and South Western Railways, by which it was hoped that by the aid of those systems the South Wales collieries would be brought into direct communication with the inner line of breakwater at Portland. The subject was one that had attracted the attention of the Admiralty, and the proposed new means of communication would be carried out with as little delay as possible.
 MR. BAINES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If it is true that Julian dc Vargas, a Spanish Schoolmaster at Malaga, has been imprisoned in a felon's prison since the 12th of March, and is now under prosecu-
 1479
 MR. GORST  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to institute any local inquiry into the affairs of Ceylon?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he could not consent to afford Mr.
 1477
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he was happy to say that the system of employing soldiers in barracks had been found to work very satisfactorily. The system had been already extended to the other depots, and it was the intention of the War Office to still further extend it.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether his attention has been called to the discrepancies which occur in the practice of Parochial Boards in Scotland in imposing assessments under the Poor Law Amendment Act—namely, that some Parochial Boards make no deductions in terms of the thirty-seventh section of the Act, while some Parochial Boards make an uniform deduction in regard to all classes of property, and others make different deductions in regard to different classes of property; and, whether he is prepared to state, for the information of the Parochial Boards, the course they ought to follow in regard to making deductions under the thirty-seventh section of the Poor Law Act?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that the 36th Regiment was sent from England in March, last to Kurrachee in Scinde, where it arrived at the commencement of the hot season; whether the Regiment was then sent into barracks which had "been declared unfit for European troops;" and, whether, on one day in June last, nine men, women, and children of the Regiment died in those barracks from what was called heat apoplexy?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he was not surprised, knowing the great interest that existed out-of-doors on the subject of the pay and position of the Army Chaplains, that the hon. Gentleman should have put this Question to him. He was, however, unable to add anything to the answer he gave about a fortnight ago to the hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. Eykyn), namely, that in pursuance of a pledge given by the First Lord of the Admiralty, that the pay and position of the Naval Chaplains should he considered by the Board, they had come to the unanimous conclusion that the Navy Chaplains should be placed on an equality with the Army Chaplains. Owing however, to financial difficulties, the amount had not appeared in this year's Estimates, but he hoped that before long justice would be done to the Navy Chaplains.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in moving that the House go into Committee upon this Bill, he proposed to give some explanation of what had transpired with respect to the Bill since it had been sent upstairs. When the Bill was before the House on the second reading no arrangement had been come to between the promoters of the Bill and the railway and telegraph companies. With respect to the telegraph companies, the promoters of the Bill had offered them the actual price paid up, and, in addition, what an arbitrator would give them for the prospective increase likely to occur in their income, and an additional sum for the compulsory sale. That offer was declined by the electric telegraph companies, and therefore when he proposed the second
 1558 1559 bonâ fide 1560 1561 1562 s s d s 1563 1564 "That it should be left to the discretion of the Postmaster General, with the consent of the Treasury, to make special agreements for the
 1565 employés 1566 1567
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would admit that the Select Committee on the Bill had curtailed their inquiry as much as possible, considering the magnitude of the interests involved. He had seen a criticism to the effect that time had been wasted, but the inquiry-lasted only nine days, while the proposed outlay was £6,000,000 sterling. Besides, the inquiry had been carried on under great disadvantages. An opposition, organized by private interests, had been changed into an organization of warm supporters of the Bill pending the inquiry. Before the Committee there appeared counsel representing the promoters, and, at first, counsel representing the original opposition to the Bill; but in consequence of the change in the views of the opposition who during the proceedings became friendly to the Bill, there was no counsel present to cross-examine the witnesses. Consequently, in the interests of the public, and in order that all the facts might be brought to light, Members of the Committee had to discharge the duty of cross-examining the witnesses. The same causes led to the result that the witnesses produced were all on one side, and it was only just that he should bear testimony to the ability with which Mr. Scudamore had brought forward his views and stood any amount of cross-examination in defence of those views. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had mentioned that he, as a Member of the Committee, had been desirous that some gentleman connected with the companies should be examined. The result had justified his wish. Considerable light had been thrown on the subject by their evidence. Now in the first place he wished to state it as his opinion that the evidence brought before the Committee was such as on many points to modify the hostile views which might have been entertained in some quarters with regard to the Bill. One of these objections he might allude to, though it was not much pressed before the Committee. It was contended that the present telegraph companies had a responsibility upon them for any loss or damage that might result from the sending of inaccurate messages, but that no such responsibility would be
 1569 s s d s 1570 1571 s d s d s s s d 1572 d s s d 1573 s 1574 1575 primâ facie 1576 1577 "I do not say you should rest satisfied with my statement, but that is all I can say. During the vacation the whole amount to be paid will be ascertained, and then it will come before the next Parliament to confirm it, and Parliament will then have an opportunity, even if this Bill be
 1578 "In case no Act shall be passed during this or the next Session of Parliament, putting at the Disposal of the Postmaster General such Monies as shall be requisite for carrying into effect the Objects and Purposes of this Act, the Provisions contained in this Act or in the Agreements hereby confirmed relating to the Arrangements with Railway and Telegraph Companies, and all Proceedings thereunder, shall become void."
 MR. LEEMAN  observed that he had moved in Committee a Resolution to the effect that the imperfect information on the subject of cost, as well as the uncertain amount of revenue to be derived, would not justify the prosecution of the Bill until that information should be laid before Parliament. He fully concurred in what had been stated as to the position in which the Committee were placed. On the 18th June, when the Bill was discussed, the whole of the telegraph and railway companies were petitioners against the Bill; but between that moment and the time when the Bill came before the Committee the whole of these interests had been bought up by the Government. The Committee were placed in a most invidious position. They had to take the place of counsel for the purpose of bringing out the information which was now before the
 1579 1580 s d d d d s d 1581 d s s d
 MR. KARSLAKE  said, he had been strongly opposed to the original Bill, regarding it as a measure of confiscation; but the House having affirmed the principle that this change should be made, there seemed to him a great advantage in: proceeding with the measure. If it passed this Session the companies would be bound to the agreements into which they had entered, although their profits were steadily increasing, while it would be open to
 1582 1583
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he anticipated that the Bill would pass into law, and, as far as he was concerned, there were several motives which induced him to wish that it should not be delayed. The first motive was one to which he had alluded on a former occasion—namely, the manifest weakness and defects of the present telegraph system; for, whatever might be said of those who had led the way in this useful enterprize, the telegraph was an instrument which, as regarded the great mass of the people of this country, was very feeble, and was, in the hands of the Government, susceptible of great improvement. He likewise felt that the very great authority attached not only individually to the judgment of so able a public servant as Mr. Scudamore, whose mind had been employed upon this subject, but to the Department of the Post Office at large. He attached very considerable authority to the opinion of that Department when he considered upon how many great and seemingly doubtful enterprizes it had entered
 1584 1585
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : What I said was this—that I did not think it for the public advantage that I should name the precise sum, but I thought it would not be beyond £4,000,000. I thought that the outside sum.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he supposed the right hon. Gentleman mentioned £4,000,000 then in the same sense as he mentioned £6,000,000 now. He thought his right hon. Friend the Member for the City made clear the principle on which such a purchase should be made. Again, he wished to point out that their duty in
 1586
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : They had notice.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that at all events, at that time the companies treated the proposed purchase as a disadvantage. The price of the Electric Telegraph Company's shares was then £153; on the 23rd of June, just after the reference in Committee, the shares had risen to £165. The rise might be taken to represent the normal, fair, and legitimate improvement in the value of the property connected with the approximate realization of the plans of the Government. But what were they to say when, instead of a rise of £12 between the 2nd of January and the 23rd of June, they found a rise of £41 between the 23rd of June and the 21st of July? And would the reasoning of the hon. and learned Gentleman account for that? He had set up an ingenious theory, that there was something so delightfully scientific in the possession of telegraphic property that it attracted to itself, quite irrespective of vulgar calculation, what was known as a  pretium affectionis; 1587 1588 ultra vires,
 MR. NORWOOD  said, that although, the Select Committee laboured under difficulties which were not diminished when the opposition to the Bill disappeared, they did not fail to examine every point involving the interest of the country. Their chief difficulty was that they had before them a scheme the receipts and expenditure of which could not be exactly ascertained; but having a maximum estimate which showed a net revenue of £358,000, and a minimum estimate which showed a net revenue of £203,000, they adopted the mean of £280,500 as the revenue that might be reasonably calculated upon. Mr. Scudamore gave to the Select Committee the strongest assurance that all the rights and property of the telegraph companies could be purchased for £6,000,000, and a financial officer of the Treasury fully confirmed those figures. As to the bargains with the telegraph, companies and railway companies he was not satisfied with them. These companies, he thought, were about to receive a very large sum indeed. But the Select Com-
 1589 d
 MR. LEVESON-GOWER  said, it appeared to him that neither the House nor the country sufficiently appreciated the enormous importance of this question. He thought that that importance could scarcely be overrated, not merely as regarded the question itself, but likewise in reference to its furnishing a precedent for future legislation. This proposal was a step in a direction quite new to the Government of the country—an undertaking founded upon an opposite principle to that which had been hitherto acted upon by them—namely, the principle of leaving all such operations to private enterprize. Although he admitted there might properly be exceptions to that rule, still, as far as he knew, this was the first time the Government had offered to purchase from private individuals large commercial concerns with the view of carrying on the business of them themselves. He therefore thought it was a measure which
 1590
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not quite understand the hon. Gentleman, who would, perhaps, explain his meaning more fully.
 MR. LEVESON-GOWER  said, that early in the evening in question the right hon. Gentleman assured the House that after twelve o'clock the Electric Telegraphs Bill would not be proceeded with. He was aware, however, that the proceeding with it after that hour was justified on the ground that some understanding had been entered into between some of the opponents and the promoters of the measure. He maintained that that justification was not a sufficient one. Great inconvenience would result if those who were opposed to a particular measure felt they could not safely leave the House even after an assurance had been given by the Government that the measure would not be proceeded with that evening. Although he (Mr. Leveson-Gower) had a high opinion of the ability of the Gentlemen who formed the Select Committee to whom the Bill was referred, he could not say so much in favour of their impartiality, for with one exception—that of the hon. and learned Member for York (Mr. Leeman)—he believed they had all been favourable to the measure. Nearly the whole of the time of the Committee was occupied with the consideration of the amount of money that ought to be paid to the companies, whilst the many bearings of the question were wholly ignored or disregarded. It was desirable to ascertain what occurred in other countries; and he understood that in the United States the telegraphic communications, which were entirely in the hands of private companies, were acknowledged to be remarkably successful. Another question, which was not alluded to, was that of the improvements that were now going on in the telegraphic system
 1591
 MR. E. POTTER , having had much experience in the telegraph department of business, felt satisfied that the evidence given by Mr. Scudamore was sound and practical, and that it rather under-stated than over-stated his case. He believed that a 6 d s 1592
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he had listened with much interest to the discussion that had taken place, and was gratified to observe that the principle of the Bill was substantially accepted by hon. Members who had addressed the House from both sides. He felt that Ireland was largely interested in the promotion of the measure, and an hon. Member objected to the Bill as forming a precedent for the purchase of Irish railways not on its intrinsic merits. He (Sir John Gray) thought that the fact of its forming a precedent was no solid objection to a measure which would confessedly prove to be a first step towards increasing the commercial activity of that country. He saw in the details given in the evidence of Mr. Scudamore that only 5 per cent in number of the telegraphic messages that passed over the entire telegraphic system of the United Kingdom represented the telegraphic intercourse between Ireland and Great Britain. Every man who understood the commercial transactions of Ireland knew that the present trade of that country was principally a cross-Channel trade; and while the inland telegraph intercourse was represented by 95 per cent, the whole Irish cross-Channel trade was represented by only 5 per cent. This was admitted to be owing to the high tariff—which was from 3 s s s s 1593 1594 s s s d s d s s s s 1595
 MR. PHILIPS  objected to the Post Office having to work the telegraphs of the country. The Postal Department was well conducted; but that was no reason why it should undertake duties that it did not understand, and which did not belong to it. Who were the parties that chiefly used the telegraph?—merchants, lawyers, and betting men, and they were well enough able to pay for their messages. The rate of messages might be reduced to 1 s d d
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken into account the depreciation in the value of the plant which he was about to purchase? He had seen, while travelling on a railway a few days ago, a number of telegraphic posts in a partially rotten state, and he had been informed that they would want renewing along the whole length of the line in two or three years. New machines were constantly being invented, and would be frequently required. Another point which should not be forgotten was that the Committee had sat only nine days, their Report filled 250 pages, 110 of which were taken up by the evidence of Mr. Scudamore, and therefore it was likely that the evidence would be
 1596
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , said, he hoped the Committee would not accept the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers), but would take the Bill as it had come from the Committee. He thought his hon. Friend was mistaken as to the provisions of the Land Clauses Act. Under that Act the parties were, in the first instance, to endeavour to agree upon a rate of price. It was on their failure to so agree the aid of arbitration to fix the rate was invoked. In this case the parties had come to an agreement; so that the Government had adopted the first alternative in the Land Clauses Act, and they came to Parliament and stated what the agreement was. He thought that on the second reading he stated to the House that the Government had offered terms, and even mentioned what those terms were. No one then objected or stated that in having offered terms the Government had acted improperly. Now, as regarded what had been said about the extravagance of the price, he hoped the Committee would bear in mind that the transaction was one in the nature of a compulsory purchase. The Government had always regarded it in that light. It was quite clear that the parties with whom they had to deal were commercial companies which had been struggling during the earlier stages of their existence, but had arrived at the position of making a considerable profit of the undertakings. Now, if the Government went to arbitration on the question of the rate of purchase there could be no doubt that under such circumstances the companies would get liberal terms. He had never asserted that the terms which the Government had agreed to were not liberal. What he had asserted was that they were not too liberal. He doubted very much whether, if his hon. Friend succeeded in his Amendment, the companies would not get better terms. He was not prepared to give the figures, because, if he did so, he might prejudice the case of the Government in the arbitration on other points; but he had gone into calculations which induced him to believe that, in the interests of the public, it was better to pay twenty years' purchase than go to arbitration on the question of the rate. As to the comparison that had been made between the price in this case and that provided in the case of the railways by the Act of 1844, the Committee would remember that under the provisions of that Act the Government were enabled at the expiration of twenty-one years
 1599 s 1600 "I beg to inform you that we shall be glad to guarantee to the Post Office a yearly income of 4 per cent on the capital proposed to be raised under the provisions of the Bill now before Parliament, for the purpose of purchasing the property of the different telegraphic companies, on the understanding that we are to receive the net income from the telegraphs for fifteen years. We are ready to deposit with the Bank of England such guarantee as may be necessary."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the Government had agreed to grant liberal compensation to those officers of the telegraph companies who were not re-employed by the Post Office.
 MR. AYRTON  objected to the clause, on the ground that it was really not appropriate to the present Bill, but properly belonged to the Money Bill which was to be introduced next Session. Besides, at present messages were forwarded from one part of the metropolis to another for 6 d 1601 d
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, although the messages from one part of the metropolis to the other were only charged at the rate of 6 d s
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that messages were carried from one part of the metropolis to another for 6 d
 MR. NORWOOD  observed that the only company he found to carry them at that rate was the Electric and International.
 MR. AYRTON  said, as the clause stood the Postmaster General could not make an exceptional rate for the metropolis. He wished to have power given to the Postmaster General to do so.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there was no compulsion on the Postmaster General in respect of, the price to be charged, further than that 1 s d s
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  objected to an increase of 100 per cent being put on the charge for local messages in the metropolis.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  complained that the metropolis, like the Jews in the Middle Ages, was looked upon on all occasions as a fair object of plunder. He protested against its being taxed for the benefit of Scotchmen and Irishmen. There was no doubt that under the clause metropolitan messages might be charged 1 s 1602 d
 MR. KARSLAKE  hoped that hon. Gentlemen would bear in mind that 1 s
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  called attention to the fact that the metropolis was not the only place where a message could be forwarded for 6 d d
 MR. LEVESON-GOWER  said, he was anxious that telegraphic communication should be made cheap to the entire country; but he did not think it would be fair to raise the price paid for the transmission of messages in the metropolis.
 MR. TURNER  believed that the 6 d s
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman would do well to consider the question of a reduction of rate for short distances as applicable to towns.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he held in his hand the rates of porterage charged by the Electric and International Telegraph Company for the delivery of messages. Those rates were as follows:—Under half a mile, no charge; over half a mile and under one mile, 6 d s s s s d s
 MR. WATKIN  said, he thought that the principle of the reduced rate ought to be applied to all those large towns in which it was at present adopted.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was willing to have the scope of his Amendment extended so as to embrace all other places besides the metropolis, which now enjoyed the advantage of the 6 d
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he could not concur in the objections urged to the uniform rate by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. Still he confessed he was one of those who believed they would ultimately come to a uniform 6 d s
 MR. E. POTTER  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consent to a reduction of the rate to 6 d
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was a great believer in the 6 d
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he saw no just ground for making a distinction in this matter between persons living in a town or city above 30,000 inhabitants, and those residing in a city or town with a population below that number. He cautioned the Committee against establishing any such system of discrimination.
 COLONEL SYKES  feared that a 6 d
 MR. MONSELL  recommended the immediate adoption of a 6 d
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, it was proverbial that both railway companies and electric telegraph companies had either never been assessed, or the assessment had not been carried out and was still pending. He wanted to know whether it was the intention of his right hon. Friend to leave things as they were or to have the property assessed, though such assessment had not been made up to the present.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was intended to have the property pay the rates on assessment as Government property.
 MR. HENLEY  pointed out that the clause would require amendment, otherwise this property would enjoy a permanent exemption.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would look to it.
 MR. AYRTON  asked how contracts entered into by the telegraph companies would be enforced against them when the telegraphs were vested in the Crown?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would consult the Attorney General on the subject before the next stage of the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that a similar question had arisen when the Government undertook to grant annuities. The proper course would be to have the Postmaster General liable to be sued as a subject in any place where the contract had been made or damage had arisen in violation of the contract.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he wished to make an appeal to the Secretary of the Poor Law Board against proceeding further with the Bill. It contained several objectionable clauses, which had been repeatedly brought forward, and as often withdrawn. They had now come to the fag-end of the Session, sitting till three o'clock in the morning, the only object seeming to be to hurry through Business in a manner which would certainly bear bitter fruits hereafter. There could be no satisfaction in going on with this Bill at this period of the Session, and it was most remarkable that the Government should now change their tactics on the Bill, and attempt to rush it through the House, simply on the ground of the House of Lords having made some supposed improvements in it. He would suggest that it should be withdrawn, and brought forward early in another Session, when it might receive due consideration. He should move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. KINNAIRD  reminded the Committee that the Scotch as well as the metropolitan Members strongly objected to the Bill, and expressed a hope that the Government would not prolong the Session by pressing forward so obnoxious a measure.
 MR. SYNAN  hoped the Bill would be proceeded with.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, the Government had felt, on former occasions, that the objections urged against the clauses were such as they could not resist, and had therefore withdrawn them. These objections remained in full force, and why should not the Government then give way? The Bill introduced entirely new principles into the administration of the Poor Law. Was it to the credit of the Government that those clauses should be introduced within five days of prorogation, and that the Bill should be pressed forward in such a state of the House as this, when half the Benches were empty, and every Member who took an interest in it had left town?
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  appealed to the
 1606
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was too late in the Session to discuss these religious clauses.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  explained that last year certain portions of the Poor Law Bill were withdrawn because there was not time for their discussion in the other House, although they had been discussed in this; but in the present Session the Bill had gone through the other House first, so that there was not the same reason for withdrawing the Bill that there was for withdrawing part of last year's Bill; and there was only one recommendation of the Select Committee embodied in this Bill upon which the House had not already expressed its opinion.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he hoped the Committee would not be led away into reporting Progress on an occasion which did not call for it. Already half an hour had been wasted in fruitless speaking. The Bill did not relate to Scotland; but it involved an Imperial question on a subject that had been carefully considered by a Committee which sat three years, and which agreed upon clauses mainly to the effect of those before the Committee. The circumstances of past Sessions had prevented clauses being discussed in this House in time to get a Bill through the other House; and therefore the Department had wisely begun this year in the other House. There was abundance of time for the discussion necessary now, and therefore he hoped Progress would not be reported.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, it was admitted that there had been a deviation from the regular course of proceeding, and that this Bill came cut and dry from the other House at a time when there was not a fair opportunity to discuss it in this. The Act which brought so much credit to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. G- Hardy) was discussed in this House first. He must continue to offer such opposition as he could to the progress of this Bill, against which the Guardians of his borough had petitioned.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the clauses objected to were before this House in 1865; they had been well-considered, and nothing had been said on the subject now that had not been said before. The only object of the clauses was to provide a means of giving effect to the law, which had been evaded. The arguments for reporting Progress were used three years ago, and no doubt would, if the occasion should arise, be repeated three years hence.
 M-R. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that there were many useful provisions in the Bill, and he hoped that no obstruction would be offered to its consideration.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, perhaps it would be convenient were he to state the reasons which had induced the Government to bring forward these clauses. The hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. T. Chambers) had stated that the Bill of 1834 contained a clause which provided that no persons should be compelled to attend against their will any religious service of a religion different from, his own; but he had not stated that the order of the Poor Law Board, of which he approved, was identical with the clause in this Bill. That order provided that the religion of the father and mother should be that of the child, and that no orphan should be instructed in any religion against the wishes of its relatives. The hon. and learned Gentleman had also omitted to state that every impediment had been thrown in the way of that intention being carried into effect, while the clauses now proposed were the same as those which were approved by the Committee of 1864. These clauses did not merely apply to Roman Catholics, because they equally concerned paupers of every religious persuasion, although certainly a large proportion of the inmates of our workhouses were Roman Catholics. It was true, as was stated by the hon. and learned Member, that under an order of the Poor Law Board a register of the religion of every pauper was kept in workhouses; but that register was not open to public inspection, the Guardians alone being permitted to examine it. The fact was that the paupers frequently did not know their legal rights, and even those who did did
 1609
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  complained that the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. T. Chambers) had not stated the case fairly, but had used his powers of rhetoric to pervert the real fact3. That hon. and learned Gentleman wished in that matter to make one law for the rich and another for the poor; for that was practically what his speech came to. Orphans born in a better rank of life had their guardians and next-of-kin to look after them and claim them. There was nobody to plead the cause of these poor persons, who could not understand the intricacies of the law, and did not know what their legal rights were in religious matters. In 1862 a Committee recommended more than was contained in the present clause. On that occasion witnesses made out grievances both for old and young Catholics. The hon. and learned Member had referred to Dr. Manning's circular, which showed that these poor people were ignorant as to their privileges. The noble Lord then proceeded to quote evidence to prove that the rela-
 1610
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, that those hon. Gentlemen who opposed these clauses would find it very difficult to show that they went beyond the law as it stood at present, at least in spirit and intention. The hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. T. Chambers), in his vehement attack on that clause, assumed that the Poor Law of this country, as it appeared in the various Acts and in the consolidated Orders of the Poor Law Board, and as it bore in practice upon the pauper population, was one and the same thing. But that assumption was contrary to the fact. He hoped that when the opinion of the Committee was taken the decision would
 1611
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  contended that the people's rights did not, as a matter of fact, exist as long as they were ignorant of them or knew not how to enforce them. He thought that any Gentleman who pretended to be a friend of civil and religious liberty could not object to the simple provisions contained in those clauses for enabling the inmates of workhouses to obtain their unquestioned rights. The Catholic inmates of workhouses were afraid of offending the workhouse authorities, by demanding the enjoyment of their rights, and this Bill would put them in possession of their rights. He could not see why it should be opposed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was accustomed to the manner of the noble Lord opposite (Lord Edward Howard); he always appeared in the person of an aggrieved Catholic when he meditated aggression. It seemed to be agreed that under the present state of the law Roman Catholic children in workhouses had full religious liberty. It had been said that agents of the Scottish Reformation Society had been active in the lobby in reference to this Bill; but it ought to he known that Dr. Manning and Roman Catholic priests had for a good part of this Session been constant attendants in the House, in the lobbies, and in the tea-room. The object now was to abrogate the rights of individual Roman Catholics, on the plea that they did not know them, whilst it was admitted that Dr. Manning had done his best to make these rights known to those who possessed them, and also to secure that they should be enforced. By these clauses Dr. Manning would be enabled to employ the officials of the work- house to coerce any Roman Catholics who did not wish to conform to the intolerant rules of the Roman Catholic hierarchy. The object of Cardinal Wiseman was avowed, to form the Roman Catholics into a separate community, to be governed by different laws from the rest of the community. [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: No!] He would assure the hon. and learned Baronet that he had an authenticated copy of the Cardinal's address to that effect, and would produce it. The intention of the present law was to secure religious freedom, and he said it did it. The inten-
 1612
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he would confine himself to the 6th clause, which was now under discussion. He admitted, with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Newdegate), that the present law was intended to secure religious freedom; but it was not sufficient, because it could be evaded. The only entry of the religious creed of the inmates was kept in the in-door relief list, and that was under the sole inspection of the officials, who had no interest in the question of the religion of the inmates. So that though a Roman Catholic clergyman might know that many of his own religion were in the hospital, he could not get access to them, because he had no means of inspecting the register. The present clause was intended to enforce a Creed Register, which should be open to the public, and the instant that was done he would say that religious liberty would be secured, and he was surprised that hon. Members should sit there till past midnight debating and opposing a proposition so reasonable. With respect to the memorandum of Dr. Manning, he regarded it as simply pointing out the defects of the present system, in. order that they might be remedied.
 MR. BAINES  reminded the Committee that the clauses would apply to Protestant Dissenters as well as Roman Catholics. For himself, he believed he was as decided a Protestant as the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, though he shook his head, only the hon. Member's tenets as a Protestant led him to deny religious liberty, while his tenets as a Protestant led him to assert it. He was ashamed to hear the hon. Member say that the object of this clause was that the priest might coerce the poor. Such a sentiment was most intolerant, and was unwarranted. The alleged intolerance of the Roman Catholic seemed now to be transposed to the religious Protestant. He was ashamed of it, and he would give his hearty support to the clause.
 MR. MAGUIRE , to disprove the assertion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) that Catholic paupers had everything they required in the shape of religious instruction and consolation, instanced the case of a poor woman in a London workhouse who, requiring religious consolation on her death-
 1613
 COLONEL W. STUART  contended that the clause would oftentimes act injuriously in the case of Roman Catholic paupers, instead of being attended with advantage to them. He thought the attack that had been made upon the Scotch Members was unjustifiable, inasmuch as none of them had as yet taken part in the debate. If this Bill was of the small importance that some hon. Gentlemen seemed to imply, it was strange that the other House of Parliament had retained it before them, for four months.
 MR. WYLD  contended that the present law afforded every opportunity that was necessary for the instruction of Roman Catholics in workhouses.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not admit the claim of the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) to the title of a good Protestant. The hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire) intimated that he (Mr. Newdegate) was hazy on this subject; but that was only equivalent to saying that the people of England were mad, and during 300 years there had been opportunities for them to consider this question. He was opposed to a measure which would imperil religious liberty.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, that the Guardians of Marylebone gave every opportunity for the exercise of religious liberty.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  appealed to the hon. Member to allow the next two or three clauses to pass before the Chairman reported Progress. They related to the Creed Register, and were purely of a formal character.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should persist in his Motion.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he could not understand why questions as to the creed of pauper children all over the country should be remitted to the Poor Law Board for determination.
 SIR MICHAELHICKS-BEACH  thought the Poor Law Board supplied an excellent machinery for the purpose.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was not a small question.
 COLONEL W. STUART  then moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If the Admiralty Circulars on Medals of 1847, 1848, and 1858 are to remain in force?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, he had no doubt the hon. and gallant Gentleman was aware that a Committee had sat to inquire into this subject towards the close of the year 1848; and at this distance of time it was not considered proper to re-open the case.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  replied, that he had not heard of this case till it was mentioned by the hon. Gentleman yesterday; but he had taken steps to obtain information. When he was fully informed on the subject he would state his impression as to whether there was any necessity for future legislation.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : I believe, Sir, I am under no obligation to answer the hon. Member's Question, but I have not the smallest objection to do so. I have not seen the article in the  Irishman, 1557
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been called to the case of Mr. William Castle, of Melton Mowbray, recently sentenced by a bench of magistrates to four-
 1554
 MR. VANCE  said, that he had now before him a copy of the  Irishman
 MR. VANCE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Westminster, Whether it is true, as reported in the  Irishman
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was sorry he was not able to give as full au answer to the hon. Gentleman's Question as he could wish. In one respect, however, the hon. Gentleman seemed to be acting under erroneous information. The hon. Member stated that the 36th Regiment was sent to Kurrachee, in. Scinde. The fact, however, was that the 36th Regiment went to India in 1863, and it was only a detachment that was sent in March to join the Regiment. Probably it was to that detachment the Question of the hon. Gentleman applied. "With regard to the barracks, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that the War Office in England has nothing whatever to do with the bar-
 1556
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the new Indian Furlough Regulations will not inflict hardship upon those civil servants who are now on furlough under the old regulations; and whether he will undertake that steps shall be taken to place those gentlemen, upon their return to India, in as favourable a position for obtaining appointments as they would have occupied had the new regulations not come into operation; and, should this be impossible, whether compensation will be awarded to those officers whose interests may be affected; and whether he will extend to military officers the privilege of drawing 50 per cent of their salary when on furlough; also, when the regulations will take effect?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that it was, unfortunately, impossible to make alterations in the regulations respecting furlough that should not to some extent injuriously affect certain individuals, especially in the case of the present changes. The main difference, as the hon. Gentleman was aware, between the new and the old rules was this—that under the old regulations when an officer came from India he vacated his employment, and when he returned he had a chance of re appointment to other employment similarly vacated; but under the new rules an officer would retain a lien on his appointment, and thus anyone now at home and going back to India would not, as formerly, find a vacancy to which he
 1555
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he had heard that the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown had stated the other day, in reply to a Question of the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), that it was not the intention of the Government to do anything in respect to rescinding the decision come to on the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett), (providing that the expenses of the returning officers for hustings, &c, should be defrayed out of the county or borough rates) without due Notice of such intention being given to the House. He was surprised to see, in the face of that promise, a Notice on the Paper that morning that it was the intention of the Solicitor General to propose the omission of the clause in question. He (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) would ask the Government whether there was not some mistake made in this matter?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had stated that it was quite impossible for the Government to come to any decision upon this clause until the Bill was printed and further considered. After the Bill was so printed it was thought important by the Government that the Motion referred to should be made. The moment that decision had been arrived at communications were mode with those hon. Members who were in the confidence of the party opposite; and before the Notice was put upon the Paper it was well known by hon. Members opposite what the intention of the Government was. So far as the practice of the House was concerned, that, he believed, was the course which, under similar difficult circumstances, had always been adopted. He should have been glad to give a longer Notice, but it was impossible.
 MR. WHITE  said, he would suggest that, as the intention of the Government in respect to this clause was only made known to hon. Members on his side of the House at half past eleven o'clock last night, the Solicitor General might postpone his Motion for the omission of the clause until the third reading of the Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI : Perhaps, Sir, the House will permit me to explain the course
 1616 en bloc 1617
 MR. MONSELL  said, that nothing could be more satisfactory than the statement of the right hon. Gentleman; and he concurred with him in thinking that the course he now proposed was much better than the one he (Mr. Monsell) had suggested.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he approved of the right hon. Gentleman's proposal. He had gone through the Amendments, and was perfectly satisfied that they were only of a technical character.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that there was a general feeling on his (the Opposition) side of the House to support the Government in this matter; but he regretted the resolution the right hon. Gentleman had come to, to attempt the reversal of the decision on the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett), which had been arrived at in a much fuller House than that they had to-day.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the subject, which was decided not in a very full House, but in a thin House, would be dispassionately considered when it came on for discussion.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought that the course proposed by the Government was one which would entail considerable inconvenience. At the last moment, when they had nearly passed the measure through Committee, the Government suddenly proposed a series of clauses which they were asked to accept  in globo de novo; 1618
 MR. MELLY  said, he had endeavoured to support the Government in almost every division on the Bill, and he thought that they deserved gratitude for making the Bill applicable to Scotland and Ireland as well as to England, but he regretted the course they proposed to take with regard to the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett). It was said that the clause was adopted in a thin House; but it ought not to be rescinded in a still thinner House. If the decision on that clause should be reversed, and if it should appear that that reversal was mainly due to the influence of the Members of the Government, he was afraid that his feeling of gratitude to the Government would be very much modified.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he approved the proposal to include Scotland and Ireland in the Bill; but he must enter his protest in as strong language as he could use against the unfair proceeding of the Prime Minister in not giving Notice sooner than at midnight yesterday of his intention to reverse the decision on the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett). It was monstrous, that when many Liberal Members had gone to different parts of the country, an attempt should be made to upset a decision deliberately come to; and he entertained so strong a feeling on the point that he would rather see the whole Bill thrown out than lose the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton. He could have no confidence in Gentlemen who professed to wish to put down corrupt practices, when they were going to sanction one of the most corrupt proceedings ever known.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, there was no doubt the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) had kept his word by using strong language; but the House was so accustomed to hear such language from him that they paid little attention to it when they heard it. When the hon. and learned Gentleman charged honourable men with something like corrupt motives, he (Mr. Hardy) would only remark that that which from other mouths might make some impression, from that of the hon. and learned Gentleman made none whatever. He (Mr. Hardy) had before expressed an opinion that the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) would not work—that it applied
 1619
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he wished to mention that he had received Notice of the proposed changes in the Bill for the first time that morning. Having read them over carefully, he approved them as effecting a great improvement in the measure; for he thought you would establish a most unfortunate distinction between the different portions of the United Kingdom if you were to leave Scotland without the benefit of the Corrupt Practices Act. If any law is good for one portion of the United Kingdom, it ought to be good also for another. However, when it came to the question of regulations of the vote for appointing a Judge, he should have something to say on that point, because he thought an improvement might be affected in the provisions of the Bill on that head. There was one point on which they were entitled to some explanation from the Government. Notice had been given by the Solicitor General to leave out the Clause D 53, which had been considered, on the Motion of the hon. Member for Brighton; and yet the 19th paragraph of; the Lord Advocate's clause proposed to extend to Scotland the principle of payment for all those expenses of sheriffs and officers connected with elections included in the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett's) Motion. The Government surely could not mean to throw out a clause already carried in respect to England while, at the same time, they enacted it anew in respect to Scotland. He should certainly vote with the hon. Member for Brighton against rescinding his clause, and with the Lord Advocate's Notice, as it stood on the Votes, in favour' of putting in paragraph 19—the principle of which he understood to be the same as that of the hon. Member for Brighton's Motion.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished also to express his gratification at the proposition to extend the Bill to Scotland.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  admitted that it was desirable to get on with the Bill; but they were just then discussing, not the merits of the clauses, but the conduct of the Government. The clause of the hon. Member for Brighton was adopted in a House of 200 Members, including pairs, and on Monday the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) asked whether it was true, as rumoured, that the Government intended to propose rescinding the clause? The right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown observed, with great indignation, that the Question was unusual, un-Parliamentary, and inconvenient, and that nothing would be done without due Parliamentary Notice. Now, there was a difference between acting within the letter of a declaration and acting up to its spirit. It was true that Parliamentary Notice had been given; but they all knew that at that period of the Session the Government had enormous power, and it would not be a satisfactory proceeding if the Government now succeeded in reversing by a small majority a decision arrived at by 200 Members. The right hon. Gentleman had conducted the Bill through the House so far with the greatest courtesy, and he had honourably redeemed his pledge with regard to Ireland and Scotland; but he questioned if the Notice given by the Government with reference to this clause would be considered equally satisfactory by the House and the country.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that the clause carried on two divisions on Saturday last had been on the Paper for more than three months, and therefore there had been ample time for the Government, as well as the House, to consider it; and as three leading Members of the Government argued against the clause on Saturday, it must be inferred that all the objections which could be urged against it were then stated. It was notorious that when the House met on Saturday at this time of the Session the Government had a great advantage, because all the official Members were in town, while the supporters of the clause had not the advantage of any party organization. The clause was, consequently, carried by the independent feeling of the House. The question was not in the least degree a party question, because the majority of 9 by which it was carried included nine of
 1621
 MAJOR PARKER  said, he thought the Frst Minister of the Crown was entitled to the thanks of the community for determining to give the House an opportunity of re-considering the decision hastily come to on Saturday. He thought it not a little extraordinary that Gentlemen who were so much in the habit of calling out against any increase in the rates should, when the expenditure immediately affected themselves, be so ready to throw it upon the ratepayers. He hoped the House would not adopt the decision of the Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must remind the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) that the clause adopted on Saturday was not the same with that which had stood on the Paper for three months. Substantially there was a very great difference—great difficulty was found in passing the clause without some qualifying words for the purpose of preventing vexatious contests. Exception had been taken to the words of the proviso, and it was expected that on the Report some new qualification would be proposed. Another difficulty had presented itself. There were no means of carrying out the proposal for charging the rates of any particular division of a county with its share of the election expenses. The Government had given great and anxious
 1622 bonâ fide
 MR. W. E. FOSTER  said, he could not help thinking it would have been much better if, when he asked the Question on Monday, the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown had given him some intimation of the difficulty which was felt by the Government, and had stated that the subject was under serious consideration, because that would have given hon. Members an idea that very possibly the Government would attempt to challenge the decision of Saturday last. He was induced to put his Question in order that hon. Members who were about to leave town should have an opportunity of knowing if it was probable that decision would be re-considered. The impression created by the right hon. Gentleman's Answer at the time was that it was not to be challenged, and that was the view which the  Standard
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he could assure the House that there was no intention of unfairness on the part of the Government, and he thought that imputation had been made in some quarters a little too often. It had never been justified; there was no colour for it, and never had been. Those who were responsible for the conduct of Public Business wore bound when any proposal was made by independent Members to consider how it should be carried out. Now, he would undertake to show that there were, strong, irresistible grounds for declaring that the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) could not be worked consistently with the existing law. It had been his duty to consider the whole matter, and it appeared to him that there were no means by which it could be reduced to legislation; at this time of the Session. It would almost require an Act of Parliament to enable them to carry out what the hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord the Member for Yorkshire (Viscount Milton) pro-
 1623
 MR. GILPIN  said, he saw no ground for any imputation of unfair motives, and he hoped that hon. Gentlemen round him would consent to do one thing at a time. It would tie impossible to get on with the Bill if they took a clause winch was not at present before them, and discussed over and over again what was not regularly before the House. When the proper time came he should support the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett).
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the Solicitor General had misunderstood what it was the Opposition considered unfair conduct on the part of the Government. No one dreamt of imputing unfairness to the Government in proposing to re-consider the decision of Saturday last; but what was complained of was that so short a Notice should have been given of their intention to rescind that decision. It was utterly impossible, when it became known long after post hour, to communicate with absent Members in time for them to attend in their places. He thought, after the indignant display of virtue on the part of the right hon. Gontlemen at the Head of the Government, when the question of his hon. Friend the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) was asked on Monday, they had a right to complain of the unfairness of the Notice given by the Government.
 MR. ADAM  said, that he had received notice of the intentions of the Government from the hon. Member for Bridgnorth (Mr. Whitmore) about half past eleven last night, a few minutes after the hon. Member became aware of them. All he could do was to communicate the fact to those of his Friends who were in the House, and send out notice that morning to such as were absent and still remained in town. He thought it rather late to give such a notice; but he acquitted the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whitmore) of any delay in the matter. The hon. Gentleman had treated him quite fairly.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  proposed a new clause; (Removal of disqualification on proof that such disqualification was procured by bribery).
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would propose the clause which stood in the name of his learned Friend for the application of the Bill to Scotland, leaving out the 19th paragraph of the clause (providing that election expenses should be apportioned to the different parishes, and levied with the poor rates of the year, or, as otherwise provided by the Act 17 and 18 Victoria, chap. 91).
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he wished to explain the nature of the Amendment he intended to propose on the paragraph relating to the  rota.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had; framed the clause as much as possible on the model of the English Bill. By that Bill there was to be a vote of each Court, and with six Judges there might be an equal division, requiring a casting vote.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he must complain that the Judges of the Outer House, whose status and salaries were equal to those of the Inner House, were excluded from voting, and that no Judge in England was excluded from voting. He would move the omission of the clause.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  thought it of no consequence.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had no objection of principle to the Amendments suggested by the hon. Member for Edinburgh, and would consent to amend the clause accordingly.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he strongly objected to the omission of the 19th paragraph, as now intended by Government, after it had been framed and proposed by themselves, the principle of which would, he believed, give immense satisfaction to the people of Scotland. Even if there were some technical objections to the application of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett's) clause to English counties, they had no bearing in the case of Scotland, because the same divisions of counties did not exist; and he therefore moved as an Amendment that the 19th paragraph be added to the clause.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he should vote for the rejection of the Amendment. With many on the other side of the House, he entertained a very sincere objection to the proposal to placing that portion of the election expenses hitherto paid by candidates in boroughs and counties upon the rates. He also objected to the deposit of £100 which it was intended to require from every person who was proposed as a candidate at the hustings. That was opposed to the ancient constitutional right of Her Majesty's subjects to propose any person whom they might think fit to represent them in Parliament. It was well known also that gentlemen were occasionally proposed not for the purpose of contesting the election but merely to have the opportunity of making a speech.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Government was placed in an awkward position by the attempt to raise the question at that moment. It was quite clear with what intention it was done—to get a vote in support of the English clause, though in reality the proposal as regarded Scotland stood on entirely different grounds, as the circumstances of the two countries were different. If the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) intended to persevere with the clause as it stood, it would create a difference between the law of England and the law of Scotland on this head.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought that if the House would agree to the Amendment it would place Scotland in the same position as England.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  proposed to insert the following clause after Clause D 53:—
 "In case the county for which the county rate is made shall be divided into two or more parts for Parliamentary representation, then the said expenses shall be charged upon and defrayed by and out of the county rate levied within and for that part of the county for which such Election shall take place; and the clerk of the peace for the county shall apportion such expenses amongst the parishes, townships, and places only in that part of the county in and for which such Election shall have so taken place, as nearly as may be in proportion to the number of persons whose names shall appear on the register of county voters for such parishes, townships, and places respectively; and the clerk of the peace, in issuing his precept for the county rate, shall add thereto the proportion payable in respect of such expenses by each of the last-mentioned parishes, townships, and places, and the same shall be recoverable in like manner and as part of the county rate."
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  was not surprised that the noble Viscount should have failed in solving the very difficult question he had undertaken to deal with. By the 53rd section of the Bill the expenses of every election for a county were ordered to be defrayed out of the county rate, and for a borough out of money to be raised under the 6  Vict Vict. 1628
 MR. LEEMAN  said, the Solicitor General had endeavoured to combat the proposition of the noble Viscount on mere technical grounds, and had contended that the proposition of the noble Viscount could be carried into effect. He (Mr. Leeman) hoped that the House would not listen to the objection of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The difficulties could be got rid of by the insertion of words in the clause. When the precept for the rate was sent out, a calculation was made respecting the portion payable by each parish, and no difficulty could arise on that point. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that what was proposed by the noble Viscount could not be done by law. Why, this clause was proposed to enable it to be done by law. The country rate for the North and West Hiding was levied respectively on each of these divisions, and where was the difficulty in apportioning on each parish in
 1629
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would be glad to know the exact mode in which the hon. and learned Member for York (Mr. Leeman) proposed to carry out the clause. He could not see how it was to work. How was the money to be provided, and on whose authority were the precepts to be sent out? The magistrates assessed the county rate on certain estimates of the money required for roads, bridges, police, and other county expenses. Were they to make a new and prospective estimate for the possible expenses of a Parliamentary Election, and a limitation of the rate to the particular parishes which were situated in the division in which the election might take place? If not, in what manner was the money to be provided supposing the expenditure for other purposes to come up to the full amount of the estimates. Did the hon. Member propose that the clerk of the peace should be able, of his own motion, to increase the county rate sufficiently to cover such election expenses.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he wished to point out as a question of Order that it would be better if the clause of the noble Viscount were postponed until after the new clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) had been discussed, as then hon. Members would know what they were doing.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if the House desired to do so, they could permit the present clause to be postponed and brought up again as an Amendment upon the clause to be proposed by the hon. Member for Brighton.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he felt himself placed in some difficulty upon this question, because, if the Government succeeded in striking out his clause, everything would fall into confusion. He thought it would be better to discuss the proviso first, on the understanding that his clause was in its entirety in the Bill, and that, if the clause fell through, the proviso would fall with it.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought it undesirable to discuss bit by bit the
 1630
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, in spite of all that had been said by the hon. and learned Member for York (Mr. Leeman) he believed the clause to be perfectly unworkable. It would be impossible to collect a rate from the owners of tenements when that rate would frequently amount to a fraction of a penny, or the fraction even of a farthing. The principle was no doubt a just one, but if it were put into practice at all it would be much more simple to allow the clerk of the peace to pay the amount out of the gross rate of the riding.
 SIR ROBERT COLLIER  said, that if the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) were rejected this question would not arise. It would, therefore, be better to discuss the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton first.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  gave Notice that he would move it as an Amendment on Clause D53.
 MR. BERKELEY  said, he rose to move the insertion of a new clause with a view to the better prevention of personation at elections. The clause provided that at the annual registration the Revising Barrister should fix the parish in which non-resident freemen shall record their votes, and that they should vote on one qualification only. He could conceive no objection that could be offered to the clause, which, if it did no good, could certainly do no harm.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he believed the first part of the clause was quite unnecessary, inasmuch as it was now competent for the returning officer in any borough to assign one or more polling booths specially for non-resident freemen to vote at, and such had always been the practice at Leicester and other boroughs in many parts of England, while the second part, in which the hon. Member desired to prevent au elector from claiming to vote in respect
 1631
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that while he was as anxious as the hon. Member to prevent personation, he did not think the method proposed in the clause was the best one. To the second part of the clause he had the strongest objection, on principle, for it had always been the rule that persons should have the right of voting on different qualifications. If the House thought it desirable, the first part of the clause might perhaps be reduced into a practical shape; but for his own part he was of the opinion that no good could result from the attempt to prevent in this way the practice of personation. It would be better at some future time if they found personation to be very frequent to seek some more effective mode of dealing with the evil.
 MR. NEATE  said, he believed that the most effectual way of putting an end to personation at elections would be for the Law Officers of the Crown to do their duty and prosecute the offenders, where such a course was rendered advisable by the gravity of the offence.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he rose to move the insertion of a clause, the effect of which would be to prohibit the payment of expenses for conveying voters to the poll in counties and in those boroughs; which were treated last year as counties. Last year the prohibition was carried as regarded boroughs, but was not extended to counties. One objection that had been raised was that it would require so great an increase in the number of polling-places that the expense would be as great as that of conveying voters to the poll. He did not think that would be so; at any rate the objection was removed by the clause that was carried on Saturday (Mr. Fawcett's clause), and which he hoped would be retained. Another objection was that the new polling-places would be appointed by magistrates out of political motives. To remedy that he had another clause to propose, which would take the initiative
 1632
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would appeal to the House not to enter into a discussion of this question, for the matter was fully debated last year, and as a compromise to meet all the different views expressed at the time, the present clauses in the Reform Bill were introduced, confining the operation of such a provision to boroughs. If they entered into a discussion of this proposal, several hours might be taken up, which at this late period of the Session would be to put a stop to the further progress of the Bill.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, the appeal which had just fallen from the Solicitor General was the most extraordinary he had heard for a long time. They were asked not to disturb an arrangement that had been come to last year, and yet they were told they would be asked to disturb an arrangement that had been come to only on Saturday last, and which was affirmed by two successive majorities. He trusted that the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) would not withdraw his clause—unless, at all events, the Government withdrew their opposition to the clause which had been proposed by the hon. Member for Brighton.
 MR. CORRANCE : Sir, I must agree with what has fallen from the hon. Member that no fair occasion has been afforded us of discussing this question in a manner either commensurate with its importance, or in connection with circumstances of no small or insignificant nature which should exercise an influence over our votes. Many of them have occurred since its introduction into the House. In proportion as I
 1633
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, they were then discussing the principle of the clause, and they could discuss modifications in it afterwards. He, too, saw no force in the appeal of the Solicitor General; but he admitted the question was not a large one. The reasons for and against lay in a nut-
 1634
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he had not the slightest personal interest in the question one way or the other; but he must hold that the matter had been fully discussed, and he believed that all the difficulties of the case would be met by the appointment of a sufficient number of polling-places. He thought it would be better not to re-open the question, and for that reason he should vote against the clause.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the real question was whether hon. Gentlemen wished to pass the Bill this Session or not. The hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) had said there was not much to discuss with regard to this clause. His own experience was entirely opposed to this. A Bill had been brought in on the subject some time ago by the ex-Solicitor General, and had been largely discussed. He himself could speak for hours on the question, and he was certain it could not be disposed of without very considerable debate. If all the questions that were settled last year were now to be re-opened again, the House might as well make up its mind at once to put the Bill aside for the present Session.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that those questions were settled last year; on the contrary, they were entirely unsettled. At the same time he thought that if they were now to go into all the clauses they would peril the Bill, and he would give the Government his support in carrying the Bill, even though he perilled these clauses. The Government deserved great credit for having pressed this Bill forward, and therefore he would support them in carrying it.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, the Government had answered their own question as to giving facilities to the passing of the Bill when they gave Notice that they intended to reverse the decision which the House came to on this clause on Saturday. Did they think they would facilitate the passing of the Bill by trying to rescind a decision already made? If the Government claimed consideration from private Members, then private Members had some right to claim consideration from the Government.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he could assure the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) that no decision had been arrived at by the Government inconsistent with a sincere desire to pass the Bill this Session.
 1635
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would suggest that if the pairing off of voters could be accepted as a legal practice, the clause would be a most desirable one, because it would end in the outlying voters pairing to a great extent with each other.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, the clause would practically prevent a large number of Irish voters from polling. He knew of an instance in which electors would have to travel some twenty or thirty miles over a mountain to register their Votes.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, that after the decision which had just been come to, he believed he should best consult the convenience of the House if he withdrew the Notice he had placed on the Paper to move a clause prohibiting the conveyance of voters in the same county. It was clear the House did not desire to decide the question of the conveyance of voters in this Bill; but he understood no opinion to have been expressed on the merits of the ease.
 MR. AYRTON  said, in the absence of Sir Thomas Lloyd, he would move the adoption of a clause prohibiting the use, for election purposes, of premises licenced for the sale of drinks.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the House had declined to endorse the principle of the clause after a long discussion last year, when the hon. Baronet (Sir Thomas Lloyd) himself introduced the subject. The same objection applied to re-opening it which applied to the last clause; and he did not think the proposal would be a very popular one in the present state of the atmosphere.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE , in supporting the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, observed that he had himself placed a clause on the Paper identical with it, except in limiting the prohibition to cities and boroughs. He had done this from having observed that his hon. Friend the Member for Cardiganshire had left London, and not being aware that he had entrusted his clause to the hon. Member. He had made the alteration in the hope of more readily inducing the House to adopt the proposal; as the risk of ill results in counties was certainly less, while the inconvenience, if any, might be greater. For his own part, he would be glad to see the clause pass in either form. The Prime Minister had appealed to the decision of the Committee, having been adverse to the suggestion on the preceding year. But he had forgotten that, upon the hon. Baronet the Member for Cardiganshire first bringing it forward, it was virtually adopted by general consent in a Committee which had fully canvassed it. But unluckily the debate dragged on, and it was finally rejected later in the evening by the Members who came down about ten o'clock, who had heard nothing and cared as little for the question. The objections to the plan were summed up in the material inconvenience which it might at first occasion. No one denied that some inconvenience might result; but this was as nothing compared with the benefits which would accrue. Parliament was on its trial at the bar of public opinion; and unless some such drastic remedy as this were applied to the disease of electoral corruption, the verdict of guilty would be recorded. Every one who had had to do with a borough election, and who did not palter with his own conscience, must confess to the utter corruption connected with committees held at public-houses. There were committees of electors and commit-
 1637
 MR. CLAY  said, that though there were objections to the use of public-houses, he must vote against the clause. If it were passed, it would prevent him from addressing the electors of Hull from the window of one of the principal hotels in the market-place. He feared the clause would deprive many a candidate of power to use the only assembly-room in his borough. He had been in the habit of using the same hotel at his elections for thirty years, where he was to be seen every day; and if he left it his friends would scarcely believe that he was a candidate.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, there was no difficulty either in counties or boroughs in obtaining suitable rooms in private houses and he hoped Parliament would put down this great source of expense and corruption.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he was in favour of reducing the expenses of elections, and therefore he should vote against the clause, because his experience was that the candidate could very often obtain rooms cheaper in a public-house than elsewhere. Why was it to be supposed that when rooms were engaged in such a place it was merely intended to bribe the landlord or his customers? Some hon. Members seemed to think that licenced victuallers were worse than any other class of electors; against that assumption he begged to protest.
 MR. POWELL  said, there were many towns—and the town he represented was one of them—where, if this clause were carried, it would be impossible to address the electors except in the open air, as there was no room in the town—with the exception of the Town Hall—where a meeting could be hold, except in public-houses.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he was surprised that Liberal Members should
 1638
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  asked, whether it was seriously intended that a candidate who innocently hired a room in an hotel was to have his election made void, and that he was to be disqualified from sitting in Parliament for seven years? An agent might, without the knowledge of the candidate, rent a room in a public-house.
 MR. MELLY  said, that as he had been in a manner appealed to by the hon. Member for Cambridge University, he might be allowed to say a few words. In a certain election in 1865 the advertised election expenditure of the two candidates amounted to £2,469 1 s d
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as this clause was worded, if a candidate stayed at an hotel, and his agent visited him at breakfast and wrote a letter in his room on election business, the candidate would be guilty of corrupt practices.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that all the House was required to do was to vote on the principle of the clause; it could be easily amended afterwards so as to meet the objections of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would recommend the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Melly) to repeat the arrangement he had described, and be independent of the clause. It seemed as if hon. Gentlemen wished to be saved the trouble of exercising moral courage, and, indeed, wanted to be made moral by Act of Par-
 1639
 MR. BERBSFORD HOPE  said, that after the division which had taken place he should not move his clause prohibiting the use for election purposes in cities and boroughs of premises licensed for the sale of drinks.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must oppose the clause for the same reason ns he opposed it the other day—that this was not the time nor the occasion for dealing with the corruption at municipal Elections. If a voter was bribed at a municipal Election, on the understanding that that bribe should secure his vote at the next Parliamentary Election also, that was sufficient to constitute bribery at the Parliamentary Election; and by this Bill the Judge would have power to inquire into it without the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), But if the bribery at the municipal Election was independent bribery, which did not lead up to the Parliamentary Election, then it was a separate matter, and should be dealt with by a separate Bill.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : Sir, I rise to move a clause declaring illegal the employment of paid canvassers, or paid agents other than the one appointed under the Corrupt Practices Prevention Act. The clause is directed against the greatest of all the sources of undue expense at elections, especially in counties and large towns. It is well-known that when a candidate presents himself to a large constituency, determined to carry all before him by dint of money, a great part of his outlay consists in hiring canvassers, and they are hired by hundreds, very often without any real intention that they should canvass, and many of them never do canvass. Up to last year, under pretence of payment for canvassing, any number of electors might, without any breach of law, be paid for their votes. A clause, however, in the Reform Act, which the country is indebted to an hon. Member near me for proposing, and to the Government for accepting, has struck a blow at this mode of bribery, by enacting that no one in the actual pay of a candidate shall be allowed to vote. Hereafter, therefore, a man can no longer be paid in this manner for his own vote. But he can still be paid for the vote of his father, or his brother, or his wife's father or brother; and, besides, there is such a thing as collective bribery—bribery of a whole constituency, by spending money freely in the place. Every petty tradesman in the town is virtually bribed by a man who flings money about lavishly on all sides, most of which comes back almost immediately to be spent at their shops. All expenditure by which electors profit is a kind of bribery; and, though it may not be feasible to put a stop to all forms of it, still, if there be a form which answers no useful purpose whatever—unless confining the representation to millionaires be a useful purpose—this at least ought surely to be put a stop to. Now, what useful purpose, at this time of day, is promoted by personal canvassing? A seat in this House ought no more to be obtained by private solicitation than by money payment. The use of canvassing, when there was a use, was to make the candidate and his pretensions known to the constituency; but this is now done by addressing them in a body, through the Press or at public meetings. It is from the candidate's public addresses, or from the newspapers, that the electors even now learn all that they; ever do learn about the candidate; they do not want canvassers to tell them. If
 1641
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the colourable employment of persons as canvassers who were not intended to canvass was bribery according to the existing law. This clause was therefore not necessary to prevent the abuse of canvassing. But did the hon. Member think it would be right to prohibit the payment of a man as canvasser who, not being an elector, gave up his time for the candidate? A subsequent branch of the hon. Member's proposal referred to the appointment of barristers, but he should hope that barristers did not act as canvassers. The clause would be unduly and unjustly severe in its operation, for if any paid canvassers were employed on behalf of a candidate at an election, even if they were not electors, that would void the candidate's election, and render him incapable of sitting in
 1642
 MR. NEATE  said, he would support the clause; it was one of the worst practices at elections.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he had done as much canvassing as any Member of the House, and he believed the whole system of canvassing was one of the worst that ever existed, as it was intended by this result, that the man who chose to sacrifice his time or money to this mode of making himself known to a constituency had a chance which on other grounds he might have no title to whatever. The hon. Member for Westminster had told them that the proper mode of canvassing now was through public meetings or the public Press, and that mode had this plain advantage in favour of honesty, that under it a man could not talk double. Anyone who was at all acquainted with a large constituency knew what opportunities were afforded at every corner, under the canvassing system, for a candidate to suit his sentiments to the colour of the man he was talking to, and thus to acquire popularity under false pretences. He thought the penalties under the clause were disproportionate to the offence, and he hoped, therefore, that his hon. Friend would agree to amend that part of the clause which related to the penalty. He did not think that the imposition of high penalties was the surest mode of putting a stop to the evil. He should very gladly vote for the clause of his hon. Friend.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken seemed to be under the impression that the proposal before the House was to make speeches serve the purpose at present served by canvassing. But that was not so. The clause only sought to prevent the employment of paid canvassers. Any candidate would be allowed to canvass for himself; but the question was whether he should or should not be prevented from employing for money other people to canvass for him. He believed that the real evil to be aimed at was the employment of solicitors in the borough or county, who were mixed up with the affairs of a large number of voters, and who consequently exercised an influence over these voters, thereby indirectly producing all the evil results of bribery. If it were possible so to frame the clause
 1643
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he had supported the Government in their efforts to pass this Bill, and should continue to do so; but he must give his support to this clause. He did not think the hon. Member, who represented the small borough of Pontefract (Mr. Childers), had had much experience in the matter. He (Mr. Osborne) had had the fortune to canvass very large boroughs, but he had never employed a paid canvasser in his life, although he had been opposed to wealthy pigeons who had been considerably plucked by that item in their accounts. If the House wished to strike at the root of corrupt practices they must support the clause of the hon. Member for Westminster. He knew of an instance in which an opponent of his employed 150 paid canvassers at 5 s
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he would support the second reading of the clause, but he thought it would require to be amended by making the penalty less severe.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, it would be useless, after the division which had just been taken, for him to move the next clause of which he had given Notice, which was a supplement to the one just rejected.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would appeal to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex (Mr. Labouchere) not to take up the time of the House by moving the clause of which he had given
 1644
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that as the Ministry had an official majority in the House by which they could overthrow any clause they opposed, he should not move his clause.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he could not think that the hon. Member gave a correct account of the present Bill when he said that it would be ineffective in preventing the improper withdrawal or compromise of Election Petitions. An endeavour at all events had been already made to secure the object which the hon. Member aimed at. The 34th clause provided that no Petition should be withdrawn without leave of the Court and without Notice of the intended withdrawal being given in the county or borough to which the Petition referred. In the event of the Judge coming to the conclusion that the Petition was about to be improperly compromised, he could order a new Petition to be substituted for one originally named, and at the same time the security given by the latter would remain as security for costs incurred by the substituted Petitioner. Then at the trial, if the Judge thought facts were being withheld, he could, independently of the parties in the
 1646
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that the only fault which he found with the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) was, that it did not go far enough. His (Mr. Stuart Mill's) opinion was, that if they desired to put an end to corrupt practices they must provide a public prosecutor, and not rely upon the private interest of candidates and their supporters for proceeding against suspected individuals. They would never get rid of corrupt practices, unless they made it the duty of some particular person to inquire, not into compromises only, but into all matters connected with corrupt practices, and to institute prosecutions where evidences of corruption were found to exist. The proposed clause, however, was a good one as far as it went, and he should therefore give it his support. He hoped the Government would accept the clause.
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  said, he also hoped the Ministry would not reject the clause. Judging from the brief statement of the Solicitor General, the Government seemed to be perfectly at one with the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) with regard to the desirability of accomplishing the object desired by the hon. Member. He trusted therefore that the Government would show its sincerity by accepting the proposal. Everyone conversant with the practice of our Courts knew that, without some such officer as was proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets, it would be impossible for the Court to form any opinion as to whether there had been a collusive arrangement or not.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  then moved the following clause:—
 (Declaration by candidates.) "The returning officer shall, in case of a contested Election for any county, city, or borough, require, at the time of nomination, every candidate to make, immediately after the nomination of the candidates, the following declaration:— "I solemnly and sincerely declare that I will not, directly or indirectly, by myself or others, knowingly commit, sanction, or permit on my behalf at the ensuing Election any act of bribery, treating, or undue influence, or other breach of the Corrupt Practices Act (17 and 18 Vic. c. 102), and that I will not pay or otherwise discharge, except in the manner and through the persons provided by the said Act, any expenses of or connected with such Election, and that I will use my utmost endeavours to promote the observance of all the provisions of the said Act."
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that when the House was in Committee upon the Bill it had considered the subject of personal declarations, and had decided against adopting them. The declaration now proposed did not essentially differ from the one which the House pronounced against on a former occasion; and, in his opinion, it would be a mere waste of valuable time to re-open the controversy.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he rose to move the following clause:—
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would oppose this clause, having opposed one founded upon precisely the same principles which had been moved by the hon. Member at a previous stage. The proposal of the hon. Member was not a fair one, and he hoped the House would not adopt it. The ratepayers ought not to be called upon to pay the costs of a trial to which they were not parties. The costs should fall on the defeated party, as in the case of a law suit. The constituency might be entirely innocent, and therefore it would he unjust to put the expenses of these inquiries on them.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he hoped that the Attorney General, who had, he thought, somewhat misunderstood the object of the clause, would re-consider his determination, and allow the clause to pass. He (Mr. Roebuck) thought it a curious fallacy to compare this, which was a public matter, with a private law suit. It was the interest of the constituency that the proper man should be returned.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Westminster would divide the House on his clause.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had great objection to the clause in a practical point of view, because it would allow Petitioners to dip their hands into the public purse. That was a principle which it would be dangerous to sanction. If the clause passed, Petitions would inevitably be pre-
 1649
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he altogether differed from the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). An inquiry of this kind was always a different thing from a private law suit, and the expenses of it ought, in his opinion, to be defrayed by the public. According to this clause the ratepayers might have to pay the expenses, and he thought the ratepayers would never get up a Petition simply in order that they might have the pleasure of paying the expenses of it. He might remark that when a constituency happened to get a good Member they ought to be proud of him, and do all they could to keep him.
 MR. POWELL  said, he should not move the clause of which he had given Notice (This Act to apply to municipal Elections), but he hoped the question to which it referred would be dealt with before long.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, be rose to move that no new Judge be appointed under the Bill until the number of Election Petitions presented to the Court of Common Pleas be ascertained. The chief ground on which he moved this clause was, that if these new Judges were at once appointed, they would draw salaries four or five months before their services were required under the Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the clause was precisely similar to one which had been moved by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), and respecting which he (Mr. Disraeli) pointed out at the time that it struck at the root of the Bill, and the Committee unanimously rejected it.
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, he rose to move a clause providing that municipal
 1650
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he could not accede to the proposition. While admitting that there was much force in what was said as to municipal corruption, he did not think it would be fair or reasonable to stop all municipal Elections in November on the ground that in some boroughs they might lead to bribery at the General Election. If the clause was agreed to the mayors throughout England would have to alter all the arrangements they had made for the municipal elections in November.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he could conceive nothing more stultifying than for the House, after having passed stringent measures for putting down corruption at Parliamentary elections, to allow perfect freedom of corruption in the case of municipal Elections. There could be no greater facility given to bribery at the Parliamentary Elections than to have the municipal Elections taking place just before them.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, as it is now time to postpone the consideration of the Report, I propose that we have a Morning Sitting to-morrow, at two, for the purpose of proceeding with this Bill. Considering what was on the Paper we could hardly have flattered ourselves that we should dispose of the Report to-day, and I am bound to express my thanks to both sides of the
 1651
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  assented.
 MR. SAMUDA , in behalf of Mr. Leeman, moved to substitute "fifty" pounds for "seventy-five pounds" as compensation to telegraph clerks.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, in reply, that he could only say that the Reports to which the hon. Gentleman alluded had been addressed to his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty, with whom he had communicated as soon as he became aware that the Question would be put, but as yet he had received no answer. He must, therefore, request the hon. Gentleman to repeat the Question tomorrow.
 LORD STANLEY , in reply, said, 'the Russian Company was an association created under a Royal Charter and an Act of Parliament, and it must therefore be recognized by the British Embassy and the British Consul in the same way that any 'Other mercantile association constituted under British law would be. With regard to the charge in question, the rate levied at Cronstadt and St. Petersburg for the support of the Church there, it was matter, he understood, of private agreement among the British mercantile houses engaged in the Russian trade, and, as far as he could ascertain, was not raised under any British authorization. The British Embassy had no control over the collection or distribution of the funds. The whole matter had been inquired into about five years ago. He had received no information, however, on the subject since he took charge of the Foreign Office.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, in reply, that the Question of his hon. Friend appeared to be based on the supposition that the Government had formed the idea of abolishing Sheerness Dockyard; but no such idea, so far as he was aware, was entertained. With regard to the second Question he need scarcely point out to his hon. Friend that the Admiralty could not expend during the coming year more money than had been voted, and no sum had been taken for the purpose stated. He might add, for the satisfaction of his hon. Friend, that Sheerness Dockyard had done good service during the year, both in the way of repairing and building ships.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India—seeing that another Session was coming to a close, and the India Budget was not announced—Whether he has taken into consideration the desirability of having the Indian accounts made up to such a period as would enable him to bring forward the Budget in the early part of the Session of Parliament, instead of, as heretofore, at the close; and whether he is prepared to name the day on which he intends to bring forward the India Budget?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, my attention has been drawn to the recent disturbances connected with the payment of tolls for crossing the bridge over the Tay at Dunkeld. These tolls were the subject of a Question put to me in February of this year by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), and I must refer the hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird) to the Answer then given by me. The right to exact tolls was constituted by Act of Parliament, which declares that the right should continue till the whole expenditure on the bridge and works therewith connected should be re-paid out of the tolls. As I formerly stated, the Postmaster General, Lord Canning, in 1853 took legal proceedings in order to show that the right to exact the tolls was at an end in consequence of re-payment of the expenditure out of the tolls; but he was satisfied, and judicially admitted that there were no grounds for his contention. I understand that legal proceedings have been taken since February, at the instance of certain residents in the neighbourhood, with the view of having a legal investigation into this matter; and I regret extremely that parties should have had recourse to violence in order to prevent the exaction of a toll which  primâ facie 1672
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the first part of the clause enabled the Judge to reserve any difficult point of law and to take the opinion of the full Court before giving a final decision, and the object of the second part of the clause was in certain cases to give one of the parties a light of moving for a new trial. The House, however, had evinced a desire that these decisions should be arrived at as speedily as possible, and that when arrived at they should be final. The first part of the clause be should certainly recommend to the House if the hon. and learned Gentleman would consent to strike out the second part.
 MR. AYRTON  consented to the course proposed.
 MR. NEATE  proposed a clause (As to corrupt practices committed by voters), making the hiring or inducing any persons or person to disturb any meeting at which any candidate shall attend, or be expected to attend, a corrupt practice within the meaning of the 17th section of the Act.
 MR. DISRAELI  trusted that the House would not consent to constituting mere noise a corrupt practice. [Mr. NEATE: The hiring.] The hiring would have to be proved.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE , in the absence of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate), moved the following clause:—
 1676 "Whenever any person or persons shall have been reported by the Judges to have been guilty of corrupt practices, the Attorney General shall institute against such persons or person such proceedings as the Law will allow."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  presumed the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) had not moved the clause because he had discovered it was unnecessary. It would be observed that the Law Officers should be compelled to prosecute in every case, where perhaps the evidence was only that of a person bribed, and where no jury would convict.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  thought it very important that some official person should be charged with the duty of considering whether a prosecution was necessary or not.
 MR. BOUVERIE  thought it better that the House should be left to decide what action should be taken on the report of the Judge.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  expressed his apprehension that the provisions of the measure would not be sufficiently stringent to prevent violence and intimidation in Ireland. The House would remember the successful opposition got up the other day to the proposal of his noble Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland to increase the number of polling-places, and they would also bear in mind the endeavours made a short time ago to pass a Bill which would have deprived the Government of the power of employing the military at the elections in Ireland. What the object in both cases was he would leave the House to judge. It was clear that if the polling-places were not increased, and the Government could not employ the military at elections, mob rule would prevail, and a free election would be in many cases impossible. Thanks to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire, there would be an unusual amount of party heat at the forthcoming elections in Ireland. It was too late now for a private Member to do anything to improve this Bill; but if he could he would make clerical interferences at elections in Ireland a misdemeanour, except in the case of the election in Trinity College. Further, he would make it compulsory on a Committee to unseat any Member at whose election,
 1677
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, that as in these cases so much would depend upon accuracy, and as uniformity in the manner in which the Reports were to be presented to the House would be very desirable, he thought the Amendment ought not to be adopted.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said he would not press the Amendment, as the Bill was only a temporary one.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL , while disclaiming all sympathy with the class against whom the Amendment was directed, pointed out the inexpediency of punishing in too harsh a manner offences committed under the Bill. According to the Amendment, canvassers or agents who had been declared guilty of and been punished for corrupt practices would, if engaged again within a period of seven years, be liable to two years' imprisonment. Surely so severe a punishment was neither more nor less than injustice.
 ME. SERJEANT GASELEE  supported the Amendment, being of opinion that punishment ought to be inflicted upon
 1678
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he hoped the House would divide, as the country would like to see the names of the hon. Members who thought it was too severe a course to punish an agent or canvasser who, having been guilty of corrupt practices in one election, procured similar employment in a subsequent election.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was not afraid of voting against this proviso notwithstanding the observations of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill). He should have had no objection to persons who had been directly convicted of corrupt practices by a jury being rendered incapable of employment at subsequent elections; but it would be nothing short of injustice to inflict such a penalty on a person who, perhaps, had only incidentally and in a rough and ready kind of way been found guilty by an Election Committee.
 SIR JOSEPH M'KENNA  said, he thought the House ought to be extremely cautious in manufacturing new misdemeanours. He should vote against the Amendment.
 MR. FAWCETT  rose to move the following new clause:—
 SIR MASSEY LOPES  said, he did not think the sum fixed by the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) was large enough. He thought that the amount of the deposit required should be increased to £300 in counties and £150 in boroughs.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, that the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton tended to infringe the right of every elector
 1680
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he thought the proviso of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) would impose an obstacle to free election, and he hoped he would withdraw his Amendment in favour of that proposed by the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. W. B. Beaumont).
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he would withdraw his Amendment in deference to what was clearly the general wish of the House.
 ME. BERESFORD HOPE  suggested the possibility of a person being nominated in his absence by those who wished to render him liable for these expenses, and proposed to amend the proviso by inserting the words "nominated with his own consent."
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he also wished to guard against persons being put to expense by being nominated without their consent. Unless a candidate polled one-third of the votes of the whole constituency he ought to be required to pay a share of the expenses. He therefore moved to amend the proviso of the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. W. B. Beaumont) by substituting "one-third" for "one-fifth." He thought there was very few constituencies in which a man could not obtain a fifth of the votes, and therefore ho thought one-third would be the better proportion to fix.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  remarked that in the event of the proposition of the hon. Member for York (Mr. Lowther) being adopted, if there were more than three candidates in a constituency of 9,000 electors they might all be fined, including those who were successful.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  opposed the Amendment on the ground that it put the proportion too high.
 MR. HEADLAM  likewise considered the proposition objectionable.
 MB. FAWCETT  pointed out that the Amendment of the hon. Member for York proposed that each candidate, in order to escape paying his share of the expenses, must poll one-third of the whole constituency, whereas his proposition had been that the candidate should only be required to poll one-fifth of the number of votes polled by the successful candidate who stood the lowest on the poll.
 MR. LOWTHER  said, he could not see the force of the reasoning of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary; but he would withdraw his Amendment, in the hope that his so doing would lead the more certainly to the rejection of the original Clause 53.
 MR. DODSON  said, he hoped that before the House divided some Member who was acquainted with the facts would say whether a man nominated against his will would not be liable to pay under this amended clause, supposing he came within it.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT , in order to meet that objection, proposed to add the words "that the proposer and seconder of a candidate who shall have been nominated without his consent shall be liable to pay such expenses."
 MR. CRAWFORD  informed the House that on one occasion he had been nominated for the city of London without his consent, when between 3,000 and 4,000 voters polled for him. He declined to pay his share of the expenses of the election; but had only escaped paying them after some difficulty.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the fact of a man not polling a reasonable number of votes was a tolerably good proof that he ought never to have been a candidate at all, and therefore he ought to pay the expenses to which he had unnecessarily put the constituency.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought the nominator and seconder of a candidate who did not poll a certain number of votes ought to be compelled to pay a share of the expenses of the election. The amount of the deposit required ought to be £300 for counties, and half that amount for boroughs.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that by the clause to which this Amendment related they had thrown the expenses of the polling and the hustings upon the rates; but they were now in this difficulty, that everybody felt they ought to prevent persons coming forward and throwing the expenses on the rates, who in point of fact ought not to stand at all. The object of the Amendment was to prevent men of straw from coming forward; but what security did it afford against such a thing happening? They had no deposit and indeed no security of any kind. He therefore objected to the Amendment, because it afforded no sort of security whatever, and must, in his opinion, be entirely ineffectual.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, that according to his experience, polling-places constituted a very great and serious expense. He thought it hard that the returning officer should be mulcted for performing his duty, and that the ratepayers should have to pay for the hustings, while it was a monstrous injustice that the suc-
 1683
 CAPTAIN HAYTER  said, the difficulty might be got over by making the mover and seconder as well as the candidate liable for the expenses. There would then be. three instead of only one security.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he objected to the whole proposal, because they had by the clause which was in the Bill, and which they were going to discuss presently, thrown the expense upon the ratepayers. It was contended that these expenses ought not to be thrown upon a candidate, and no doubt a great deal might be said in favour of a proposition which was especially popular with candidates when a General Election was approaching. But then they had this bugbear. If they saved themselves, would not anybody who wished to enjoy a little fun, or, perhaps, from a feeling of strong opposition, spring up and land them in a contest for which there was no sort of reason or sense? Ho had heard it said that they ought, if possible, to prevent any opposition being made unless that opposition had a chance of success; but this doctrine, he contended, was unconstitutional. Indeed, it was the constitutional duty of a minority, if they felt discontented with the opinions of the favoured candidate, to bring forward a candidate of their own, irrespective of all considerations as to the proportion of the constituency that they were likely to poll. The House had no right to limit the choice of candidates as it was now proposed to do, by saying that a man should be fined unless he polled a certain number of votes.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  remarked that the views of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouvcrie) might be constitutional; but they certainly could not be regarded as practical. It would be a great absurdity to allow a small number of electors to put the candidates and the other electors to great expense. The evident intention of the Solicitor General was to throw as many difficulties as he could in the way, in order to prevent the final acceptance by the House of the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett), and which had been carried by two very large majorities.
 1684
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, some such proviso as that proposed was absolutely necessary, because it frequently happened, as in the case of an opponent of his on a former election, that a candidate was thrust on the constituency. The candidate was unable to pay the expenses, and after the election was over he left; but he had, however, afterwards to pay on an actual arrest and imprisonment. Had the mover and seconder been liable there would have been a security.
 VISCOUNT AMBERLEY  instanced the case of a candidate in whose favour three votes were recorded. It was evident that there would be as much security for the hustings expenses from such a candidate under this clause as there was under the present system.
 MR. REARDEN  regarded this as an attempt to fine any working men who might come forward as candidates.
 MR. NEATE  reminded the House that the expenses of polling-pooths had been thrown on the candidate by the Act of 1832 as a compromise. Formerly the constituency bore the expense on the principle that the representative performed a public duty, but then the candidate paid heavily for carrying voters to the central I polling-places.
 MR. LOCKE KING  suggested that i words should be introduced requiring all the candidates to guarantee the payment of the expenses, so as to prevent men of) straw from offering themselves as candidates.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, the object was to prevent the nomination of persons having; no reasonable chance of being returned. ', He therefore moved, in substitution of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Northumberland, a proviso requiring that any person demanding a poll should pay, or give security for, to the returning officer£100 in the case of boroughs, and £200 in the case of counties, which should be used towards defraying the expenses of the election if such candidate did not poll one-fifth of the votes registered.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, it was but a repetition of an Amendment that had been withdrawn.
 MR. HEADLAM  hoped the Amendment of the hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) would not be pressed, as it was in reality simply the Amendment of the hon. Member for Brighton repeated. The object of the House was to press forward, and he did not think they could hope for a clearer proposition than the hon. Member for Northumberland's.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  thought the object which the hon. Member for York had in view would be sufficiently attained by the proposal of the hon. Member for Northumberland.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the Amendment of the hon. Member for York (Mr. Leeman) a very reasonable proposal, though he did not think that £100 in the case of a borough, or £200 in the case of a county, would be sufficient, as there would be so large a number of polling-places under the new  regiéme
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he was ready to withdraw his Amendment, though he felt convinced that of the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. W. B. Beaumont) would not meet the necessities of the case.
 MR. WHITE  said, the amount of expenses of returning officers in the whole of the counties of England and Wales at the last General Election was £15,655; in Scotland, £939; and in Ireland £2,239, making a total of £18,833. The expenses of the boroughs in England and Wales were £26,375; in Scotland, £1,206; and in Ireland, £1,004, making a total of £28,585. The aggregate total for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland was £47,418. These sums represented in England and Wales 6 d s d d d d d
 MR. DISRAELI  remarked that this was merely the reproduction of an Amendment which had already been before the House, and in regard to which a decision had been arrived at either in form or in spirit. Now, although it was not desirable to check anything like legitimate discussion, yet he was certainly of opinion that the House ought to refrain from debating matters on which it had recently come to a decision. He should vote against the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman if it were pressed to a division.
 MR. MONK  said, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not suppose that the noble Lord could understand the argument which he adduced on this subject the other day. ["Oh, oh !"] He merely meant that the noble Lord could hardly be expected to follow the bearings of an argument founded on the obsure and intricate clauses of a rating Act of Parliament. Without repeating that argument, he would merely remark that in his judgment the clause would not work, and was inconsistent with the existing machinery of the county rates. The Act under which alone the county rate could be levied said that it must be an equal rate—assessed equally upon every parish, and upon all the property in each parish of the county.
 MR. HEADLAM  believed that there would not be the slightest difficulty in working a clause of this kind.
 MR. NEATE  thought the Solicitor General ought not to have interposed petty technical difficulties. He wished to say a few words founded on common sense and justice—though he did not expect that the hon. and learned Gentleman would understand his argument, as it dealt with a matter of principle and not of detail. If the county magistrates could not assess the rate proposed, they had less administrative power than he gave them credit for.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was quite sure there would be no difficulty in working the clause as note amended, though that was altogether a separate question from the proposed Amendment. On the whole, lie thought the fairest way would be for each division to pay its own expenses, and he saw no practical difficulty in it. The
 1688
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, the Solicitor General had told him the same thing on former Amendments—that they were not workable—but there was no real difficulty.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had now to move to omit Clause 53. The House must feel that they had exhausted the question, and that the opinion of every man was already made up, and therefore he would simply make the Motion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  rose to Order. The Bill as it now stood provided that the cost of the hustings, &c, should be borne by the whole of the ratepayers, and the Solicitor General's Amendment to omit the clause would throw the burden on a certain limited number of persons. He submitted that the Amendment altering as it did the incidence of taxation, could not now be proposed.
 MR. SPEAKER  decided that it was quite competent for the hon. and learned Gentleman to propose the rejection of the clause, as the omission of the clause would have the effect of relieving the ratepayers of a charge which it was proposed to place upon them.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL , in moving the rejection of the clause, said, he understood that the clause was supported on the general ground that the position of a Member of Parliament was one which it was a duty and not a privilege to occupy, and that therefore the ratepayers ought to pay the expenses as being a public charge. But he could not understand how a man, after going with his cap in his hand to an elector and saying, "If you vote for me, you will confer on me the greatest possible favour," could ask that man to pay his share of the expenses. If this clause were sanctioned, candidates would come forward merely for the purpose of creating expense—knowing that they would not be liable to pay anything themselves, but that all the expense would be thrown on the ratepayers. After all the fruitless efforts which had been made that morning to frame a proviso which would render the clause acceptable, he thought he was justified in moving its omission.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, the question really involved was one of far more importance than the acceptance or rejection of any clause in a Bill, and involved the position of independent Members of that House. Why did the Prime Minister say he would move the rejection of this clause? The Solicitor General thought he had a majority behind him, and he hardly deigned to offer a single argument; a division would be hurried on, and discussion, if possible, would be burked. If it had not been for the large attendance of Members who were waiting for another Bill to come on that evening (the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill), he believed he should, for a third lime, have beaten the Government. After his clause was carried, he I had consented to withdraw the proviso at the end, in reference to the deposit of expenses, in order to meet the wishes of, Members and the convenience of the House; and he hoped that those who recollected 'the circumstances would not be deterred from voting with him. The clause was objected to on the ground that it would impose a heavy burden on the constituencies; but the fact was that a rate of half a farthing in boroughs and a quarter of a farthing in counties would far more than discharge those expenses, and a General Election occurred only about once in four years. By retaining this clause, they would interest the constituencies so much in economy that the necessary expenses would not be more than half what they were at present. If the constituencies had to pay for the hustings, they would either have the nomination in a public room or substantial hustings would be erected once for all, and the expense would not exceed £5, instead of probably being £150. It was said that the clause would be favourable to vexatious contests; but he utterly denied this. At present these were got up by a class of publicans and solicitors who had an interest in them from what they made by them; but under this clause the candidate would be brought face to face with public opinion, and would have no interest in resisting it. The working of the clause therefore would decidedly diminish the tendency to contests. The Solicitor General's representation of the position of a candidate was degrading to public men, and most humiliating. He should receive some compensation even if defeated, because this renewed discussion would tell the country in an unmistakable way what were the doctrines which in-
 1690
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not often agree with the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawereett); but on this occasion he thought he was right, and therefore he should give him his vote. The Reform Bill would, no doubt, much increase the expense of elections. Though the expenses of the returning officer might not be larger, yet, in order to affirm the principle that Membership of that House imposed a public duty, he should vote with the hon. Member for Brighton; but he thought some addition ought to be made to the clause, to prevent men of straw being set up as candidates. He deeply regretted that the Amendment of the hon. Member for York had been withdrawn.
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  supported the clause, and protested against the idea of the Solicitor General that independent Members went hat in hand to their constituents seeking their support, instead of offering their services when great public duties had to be performed. The constituents, entirely recognizing this fact, were ready to have the necessary expenses of elections thrown on their shoulders.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : If the Government were aware of the profound feeling of satisfaction that went forth through the country on learning that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Brighton was carried, they would, instead of imposing any technical objection in the way of the passing of the clause, introduce a Bill, if necessary, for the purpose of giving it effect, and pass it through both Houses, as they could easily do, within a week. The representative of an extensive constituency remarked to me that the adoption of the clause marked the commencement of a purer era, and would bring forward: more eligible candidates.
 COLONEL B. KNOX  protested against being rated for the purpose of saving the pocket of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. J. Stuart Mill).
 MR. MELLY  reminded the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel B. Knox) that no legislation could affect the expenses incurred at the election of the hon. Member for Westminster, inasmuch as the hon. Gentleman had been returned, and would be again, at the expense of his friends and supporters.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Member did not include him in his denunciation. He trusted his hon. and learned Friend would not persevere in his Motion. At the same time, he would say that the hon. and learned Member could scarcely himself attach more importance than he (Mr. Gladstone) did to the subject on which they had just divided; and no person could more cordially feel with him than he did. If the hon. Member
 1692
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department as to the case of James Austin, Whether he has seen a letter in  The Times
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, If his attention has been drawn to the repeated disturbances caused by the demand of a money payment for crossing the Bridge over the Tay at Dunkeld, which charge the residents in the neighbourhood considered to be illegally made; and if he were prepared to state whether such charge was a legal one or not?
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the delay of the last West India Mail has been brought to the notice of the Treasury; whether any fine has been required or will be required of the Royal Mail Company in consequence; and, whether the steamer conveying such Mails was surveyed previous to her departure from the; West Indies? In explanation of the Question, he had to state that the last vessel, the  Danube
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am unable at the present moment to say whether those terms have or have not been accepted by the Corporation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am unable to put the House in possession of any further information than they are already possessed of, because if hon. Members will refer to the Notice Paper they will find that my noble Friend (Lord Robert Montagu) has put upon it an Amendment upon the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill, to the effect that if the Corporation of London shall become the market authorities under that Bill, and should suffer any loss arising from the construction of the proposed new market, they shall have power, with the consent of the Board of Trade, to raise the tolls of the Islington Market within certain limits to be prescribed. The only objection that the Corporation had to becoming the market authorities under the Bill was the fear that they might suffer loss. Under the circumstances, it is not unreasonable that those who are anxious for the construction of the new market, for the better protection of their flocks and herds, should consent to the raising of the tolls of their own market in the event of loss being occasioned by the construction of the new one. I believe that a Court of the Common Council of the City of London has been held this morning to take the subject into consideration, and should they agree to
 1673
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, if the hon. Alderman would refer to the Act which regulated these matters he would find that the plans were to be settled by the Treasury with the advice of the Commissioners. With regard to the funds, the Act provided that £200,000 should be voted by Parliament in consideration of certain buildings now occupied as Law Courts on the western side of Westminster Hall to be surrendered to the Government; that £1,000,000 should be paid out of the Surplus Fee Fund, and the remainder was to come out of the fees paid by suitors other than those in the Court of Chancery, extending over a period of fifty years. With regard to the contracts lie was unable to answer that part of the Question, for this very day there was a meeting of Commissioners to consider the question of the final plan; and therefore whether it would be possible to decide on the general plan before the meeting of Parliament be was unable to say.
 MR. SEELY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, with reference to the extracts which he read on the 2nd land 13th instant. If he will lay upon the Table of the House Copies in full of the Reports and Letters of Captain Macdonald, Captain Vansittart, Admiral Ryder, and one of the Officers of the  Ocean
 MR. SEELY  desired to say a few words on this subject by way of explanation. Since his remarks the other evening he had received the following letter—
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the Government will give an assurance that they will take no steps during the Recess to reduce the establishment at Sheerness Dockyard; and, whether the Government will take into their consideration the propriety of extending the capabilities of Sheerness Dockyard as a fitting and repairing yard in connection with the new works at Chatham?
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whe-
 1668
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he had received a communication from the clerk to the magistrates who committed James Austin, to prison for applying at the tramp ward of the workhouse when he had money in his possession as described in the newspapers. It seems that he gave two names, that he was smoking in the ward, and denied that he had tobacco about him; that he had wrapped up his money in some rags in order to conceal it, and that all the circumstances tended to show that he was committing a, fraud on the workhouse authorities.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , said, in reply, that it is not the practice to report to the Treasury delays which occur in the cases of steamers under contract; but he had made inquiries and found that the  Danube Danube
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, in reply, that until the present lease had expired it would be impossible to remove the weir. The Shannon Commissioners were, unfortunately, in receipt of a very small income, and there would be some difficulty in carrying out the arrangement of the Committee. But he would take care that the matter was not lost sight of.
 MR. CLAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Is the British Factory at St. Petersburg recognized by Her Majesty's Ambassador or Her Majesty's Consul there; and, docs Her Majesty's Government authorize the levying of a rate on British shipping at Cronstadt and St. Petersburg for the support of a Church which is only recog-
 1667
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has informed himself as to the reckless Artillery practice at Portsmouth and Dover; and, if so, what measures he has taken to prevent a course so dangerous to the safety of Her Majesty's subjects?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Then, at present, the right hon. Gentleman does not know whether the Corporation has accepted those terms or not?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer a Question of which he had given him private Notice—namely, Whether the Government has entered into any further negotiations with the Corporation of the City of London with the view of inducing that body to agree to become the market authority under the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market Bill? He wished to know also, Whether any offer has been made to the Corporation by which they are to have power, in the event of their accepting that responsibility, of raising the tolls in the Islington Market beyond the rate which has been fixed by Parliament; and, whether the right hon. Gentleman will put the House in possession of any inducements which may have been held out, or any terms offered to the Corporation of London to induce them to become the market authorities under the Bill previously to the Bill coming on again for discussion?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Under whose authority and responsibility the New Law Courts will be erected and the approaches to them formed, whether of the Treasury, or of the Commissioners of Works and Buildings, or of the New Courts of Justice Commission; from what funds is the whole expense of these Courts and approaches to be paid; and whether, before any contracts are made for executing any portion of the works, the House of Commons will have an opportunity of inspecting the plans, elevations, and description of the building, and the plans of proposed approaches?
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, What steps have been taken to carry out the recommendation of the Committee on the Shannon River to remove the Eel weir at Roosky?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that full inquiries had been made in regard to the artillery practice at Portsmouth, when it was found that the officer in command had acted in complete disregard of the strict rule laid down by the Commander-in-Chief in 1865—that no artillery practice of the kind should ever be continued after nine o'clock in the
 1669
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply to the first Question of the hon. Member he bad to state that the contract had been suspended, on account of the accidents which had lately occurred during practice at Aldershot, with a view to the substitution of a cartridge of a stronger make. With regard to the second Question, the contract had not been suspended, and his hon. and gallant Friend was mistaken in calling it non-competitive, because the parties had been invited to tender. In answer to the third Question, these cartridges were the result of such experiments, and Colonel Boxer had taken out a patent for them. Lastly, no such intention was entertained by the Government as was glanced at in the fourth Question, and the usual course would be pursued.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, he could not find that any information has been received at the India Office to the effect that sales of girls take place at the Bazaar of Manickguage, in the Burdwan Zillah.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in answer to the latter part of the hon. Member's Question, he proposed to make the statement upon the India Budget on Monday next. With respect to the first part of the hon. Member's Question, he might mention that some two years ago the question as to the possibility of antedating the time for the closing of the annual accounts of India had been raised with the view that the India Budget might be brought forward in that House at an earlier period of the Session, and it was then ascertained that to antedate the closing of the annual accounts of India more than a month would result in great inconvenience to the Indian Government. At present the Indian accounts reached this country in April; it was necessary that they should then be examined here, and therefore there was no probability that under the present arrangement the accounts could be brought before the House at an earlier period of the Session. Even if the Indian accounts were ready at au, earlier date it would be impossible to bring them on during a period of the Session when the House was occupied with matters of more pressing importance. The mere operation of laying the accounts before that House was to some extent of a formal character; but the opportunity thereby afforded enabled hon. Gentlemen to bring on a general discussion on Indian questions of interest. He thought there
 1671
 MB. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether sales of girls take place at the Bazaar of Manickguage, situate within the Burdwan Zillah; and, in the event of such being the fact, whether the Indian Government will repress those sales, and prevent all tendencies to slavery in the Indian Empire?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that he had received a communication from the chief clerk of Vice Chancellor Sir John Stuart on this subject. The result of that communication was this—that the chief clerk believed he did state in reply to a question from his Honour that the expenses to be incurred after the transfer of the case to a County Court would exceed those in the Court of Chancery. He went on to say that the opinion so expressed was formed from general impressions.
 COLONEL HOGG  said, as the hon. Genleman appeared to be under some misapprehension, he would state exactly what had been done in this matter. The first Bill brought into Parliament by the Metropolitan Board of Works for improving Park Lane was in the Session of 1865; its object was to open a new public road or street in continuation of Hamilton Place (Sec. 7). The deposited estimate of expense was £10,000. The Bill went into Committee, but the Preamble was declared not proved. A further Bill was brought into Parliament by the Board in the Session of 1866 to widen and improve Park Lane on the west side. The capital sought to be raised was £120,000. The deposited Bill was withdrawn by order of the Board
 1712
 LORD STANLEY , in reply, said, what had been decided and what the diplomatic and consular servants had been informed of was the adoption of a Minute, of which the following is an extract:—
 "That no Clerk or other person connected with the Foreign Office, except such as are at the date of this Minute (June 24, 1866) acting as Agents, shall hereafter, directly or indirectly, undertake to act as such for any of Her Majesty's diplomatic or consular servants." "That there is no obligation on them to employ as an Agent a Clerk in the Foreign Office for any purpose whatsoever, and that they may entrust to any person whom they may choose to employ,
 1713
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, in reply, that the mode in which old ships belonging to Her Majesty's Navy would be disposed of in future would depend upon the recommendations of the Committee now sitting upon the subject. There was no intention to close Sheerness Dockyard at present.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, in reply, that he had received a letter from the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty to the effect that there would be no objection on his part to lay upon the table of the House the documents to which the hon. Member referred. Some of those documents were written under the supposition that they would not be published, and contained matters of a personal nature; but the hon. Member might feel assured that nothing material to the subject would be omitted.
 An hon. MEMBER , in the absence of Sir John Gray, said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House Copy of the Correspondence between Charles Pennell Measor, late sub-inspector of Factories and previously Deputy Governor in the Convict Service, and the Home Office, in reference to his claims for compensation for suggestions made by him for the improvement of the Convict system?
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  thought it unjust that the railway companies should be subjected to a risk to which ordinary shipowners were not liable. Steamship companies, which are sometimes competitors with railways, were protected by their bills of lading, and the wording of this clause was really taken from one of those bills of lading. The clause was simply to leave an absolute freedom of contract between all parties. Everyone must admit the great advantage to the public of through booking. The railway companies said they could not continue this, if they were to be subject to greater liability than shipowners, during the transit in vessels over which they had frequently no control. For the public convenience, and more particularly in the case of the conveyance of cattle from Ireland to this country, it was desirable that this clause should be passed, especially as it would by no means exempt the railway companies from any responsibility they might incur through negligence.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he thought it unjust that the railway companies should incur this risk without receiving any compensation in the way of increased rates. For the public convenience, however, it was, he thought, unadvisable that this clause should be adopted, inasmuch as the real remedy, in his opinion, lay in an increased charge upon the parcels.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he believed that this was just one of those cases where the railway company could insure and no one else could. As the clause stood it would practically bar insurance.
 MR. GILPIN  said, that the system of insurance hitherto in vogue had not been profitable to the railway companies, and that it was easy for merchants and others to have a running policy if they chose.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he objected to limiting the provisions enforcing means of communication between passengers and guards to trains running longer distances than twenty miles.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that though a great number of inventions for securing a communication between the passengers and the guard had been submitted to the Board of Trade, he did not believe that any plan yet tried had been found altogether satisfactory. Neither the system at work on the Continent nor that which had been tried at home was quite perfect. That very day a letter had been received from the Commissioner of Railways in Ohio, giving a description of a communication by the simple method of a cord which seemed to work well even round the sharp curves of American railways. Under these circumstances he thought it would not be well to force the companies to a large expenditure without giving some time for further trial; but as to the exact date that ought to be inserted in the clause, he was in the hands of the Committee.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that on the Continent, when the communication was made by a passenger, the guard went to the carriage from which it had proceeded. The construction of the permanent way on the lines in this country did not permit of that being done on our railways; and as any plan yet tried in England consisted of a single signal, the guard could not know what was meant unless he stopped the train. To do that would in many cases be attended with the greatest danger to the lives of the whole of the passengers.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that the principle of having a communication between passengers and guard had already been approved by that House. A means of such communication had been supplied in the express trains of the South-Eastern Railway for a very considerable time, and he believed that no passenger had been found mischievous enough to make use of it for any idle purpose.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE , while admitting the advantage of the objects aimed at by the hon. Member, objected to these clauses, some of which would effect a revolution in railway administration. Many of them no doubt were useful, and be had given, under the clause extending the Railway Companies Powers Act, increased facility for adopting them. Of others he might say with all respect that they were suggested during the railway panic, and would over-ride Acts of Parliament under which the railways had been constructed. They went, in his opinion, much too far to admit of their being accepted.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that it should be recollected that directors had the power to carry out the provisions of those clauses without any Act of Parliament.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, that some trains had so few carriages that two sets could not be provided.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, he was chairman of a company whose trains sometimes consisted only of one compartment.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  suggested that the provision should be made to apply only to trains of a certain length. The abuse of smoking had become so great, and the violation of the companies' by-laws so frequent, that the smoking in trains had become a positive nuisance. Scarcely a railway carriage could be entered in which smoking was not going on, or which was not tainted with stale tobacco.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he was in i favour of smoking compartments. Journeying on the Charing Cross and Cannon Street line the other day he found a youth in one of the carriages with a great deal more hair on his face than brains in his head smoking vigorously; a lady was in the carriage, and presuming she objected to the smoking, he asked her to go into another compartment with him. He conducted the lady to another compartment and returned to the contest with the young man. But smokers always had their own way.
 MR. LAING  said, he thought the matter had better be left to supply and demand; several railway companies had already provided smoking carriages, because they found it was to their interest to do so.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  sympathized with the supporters of the clause. As a non-smoker he had often suffered severely from the violation of the by-laws against smoking; but, while admitting that railway companies had been rather slow to respond to the wants of travellers in this respect, he thought it better to leave the question to be settled by public opinion.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, public opinion in this instance was swayed by a majority of smokers. It was a case of oppression by a majority of a minority.
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he would support the clause. Anyone, no matter under what circumstances, asking a smoker to desist was generally abused like a pickpocket.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would propose to withdraw the clause and bring up an amended one at the next stage of the Bill to meet the objection raised.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he had a series of clauses to propose, but as it was now so
 1737
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  proposed the following clause:—
 (Railway Companies to be liable to penalties in case they shall provide Trains for Prize fights.) "Any Railway Company that shall knowingly hire or otherwise provide any Special Train for the purpose of conveying parties to or to be present at any Prize fight, or who shall stop any Ordinary Train to convenience or accommodate any parties attending a Prize fight, at any place not an ordinary station on their line, shall be liable to a penalty, to be recovered in a summary way before two Justices of the county in which such Prize fight shall be held or shall be attempted to be held, of such sum, not exceeding £500 and not less than £200, as such Justices shall determine, one-half of such penalty to be paid to the party at whose suit the summons shall be issued, and the other half to be paid to the Treasurer of the county in which such Prize fight shall be held or shall be attempted to be held, in aid of the county rate; and service of the summons under which the penalty is sought to be enforced on the Secretary of the Company, at his office ten days before the day of hearing, shall be suficient to give the Justices before whom the case shall come jurisdiction to hear and determine the case."
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought there was a considerable amount of false philanthropy in this matter. If time permitted, he had a great deal to say against this clause. A prize fight might be a very disgusting exhibition, and those who thought it was were not obliged to go to it. He did not go to prize fights; but he was of opinion that when we got rid of prize fighting the knife would appear.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) had with great ability and with some considerable success placed the question upon a false issue. The provision respecting the counties was of trifling importance, and applied only to those counties which were divided into districts for election purposes. The main question before the House was, whether or not the Bill was to be re-committed. The hon. Member for Cambridge had not quite accurately stated what had occurred. In a very thin Committee, not comprising one quarter of the Members of the House, the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton was introduced with a proviso or rider to make provision for deposits at the time of the nomination, or, as the clause originally stood, before the nomination. It was speedily seen that that proviso was not a good one, and the hon. Member himself undertook to bring up another proviso upon the Report. It was perfectly true that the clause was agreed to on two divisions, but it was carried by narrow majorities, and it was the constitutional practice for the House
 1728
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he must ask the House to pause before proceeding further
 1756
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would appeal to his hon. Friend (Mr. Selwin-Ibbetson) to withdraw his Amendment. It would be certain to give rise to much opposition and take up much time; and therefore, in the interest of those who wished that the Bill should pass, it would be more prudent to withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. SELWIN-IBBETSON  said, that his sole object had been to advance the measure, but he was prepared, in deference to the wish now expressed, to withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he begged on behalf of the ratepayers of London to express his gratification that this Amendment had been withdrawn.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I wish to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as the Corporation of the City of London have declined to give any assurance that they will become the market authority, and have refused the terms the Government have proposed to them in order to induce them to become the market authority, why should their name not be omitted as well as that
 1757
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman has asked me a question a great many times over, which I should have been perfectly ready to answer, if it had only been put to me once. The right hon. Gentleman wished to know what the Government were about? I will tell him very briefly. The Government are doing their best to pass this Bill. He says we have been vacillating in this matter. It is perfectly true that we are unable to pass this Bill in the shape that we should have liked, but that is owing to the machinations—["Oh, oh !"]—As exception seems to be taken to that word, I shall say that we have been compelled to alter our plan, owing to the operations—no one can take exception to the word "operations"—of those Gentlemen who are opposed to the Bill. The operations, I repeat, of those who have opposed us have thrown great difficulties in the way of the Government, and therefore they have been obliged to take the course which they consider most expedient in order to pass this measure. The right hon. Gentleman has spoken of the withdrawal of the Metropolitan Board of Works from the Bill. Our reason for doing so was this: it was felt that a great deal of lime would have been lost in discussion, had we supported the proposition to keep that body in the Bill. The Metropolitan Board of Works was struck out of the Bill by the Select Committee, and, as time was precious, we did not think it desirable to persist in re-inserting it. Had we retained the Board of Works in the measure they would have been the market authorities. As the Bill stands, however, the Corporation of London may become so if they choose.—[Mr. MILNER GIBSON: They have refused.]—I do not believe that that is the case. They have only refused a proposed compulsory arrangement. An officer of the Corporation made a proposition to the Government, which was entertained; and the Government proposed that, if the proposition was inserted in the Bill, it should be compulsory on the Corporation to become the market authority. We propose to put in the Bill that the Corporation shall be the market authority upon certain terms; and in the event of their refusing, the Commissioners will then become the market authority. We have discussed the question of what funds there will be for the erection of the market, and we decided that the funds which the Commissioners would have to look to for this
 1759
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had by no means been satisfactory as far as regarded the elucidation of the question raised by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne. ["Oh, oh !"] Hon. Members must make up their minds to allow the Bill to be discussed, or to postpone the debate. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that he was unable to proceed with this Bill owing to the machinations of Gentlemen on the Liberal side of the House. He (Mr. Ayrton) denied that such had been the case. The Government themselves were alone to blame for what had occurred. All the difficulties in connection with the Bill had arisen out of the fact that the Government, when they introduced the measure, did not deal frankly and fairly with the question. Had they proclaimed their design at the outset, the country would have been aroused and the Bill would have been defeated. But they kept back the material portion of their scheme until the measure was far advanced in Committee, and the financial scheme which they now brought forward as new they had under their notice when they first devised their scheme. They had therefore created the difficulties and were responsible for the reception which the Bill had met with.
 MR. NEATE  said, if it was a matter of Imperial interest, that for the preservation of the food of the country, restrictions should be imposed on the importation of foreign cattle into the port of London, the public generally ought to contribute to meet the expenditure which would thus be
 1760
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that looking at the amount of compensation that would be required, he doubted whether any persons would be found to undertake the duty of Commissioners. Recollecting the great loss which the country had suffered from the cattle plague, he had hitherto supported the Bill, but he should object to constitute the Metropolitan Board of Works as the market authority, because that body was already in debt, and was only able to get money the other day by the guarantee of the Government.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, they were told that there were some negotiations pending between the Corporation of London and the Government upon the subject, and he thought it would be convenient if the House were informed as to the state of those negotiations.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the Government were seeking to establish a market in the largest town in the world, contrary to the wishes of the inhabitants, as expressed by their representatives—the executive government of that town having declined to carry out the Bill. He would not have it imputed to him that he had sanctioned such a course even by his silence. The security offered to those who were to build the market was the continuance of a separate foreign cattle market, but he should use whatever influence he possessed here-
 1762
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would inform the House who the persons in the City were whom he represented as ready to advance the funds for establishing this market on the security of the tolls. He did not think any man out of a lunatic asylum would be found ready to advance the money on tolls which really presented no security whatever; for what guarantee could be given that any cattle would come to the market at all. Certainly, if the respective Orders in Council should be repealed, the foreign cattle would go back to its old channels, to be sent to London  via
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the opinions of hon. Members opposite were contradictory. They maintained, on the one hand, that the Bill would be inoperative if it became law; if so, it followed that it could do neither good nor harm. If that were their honest belief, why did they come down, day after day, to oppose the Bill, losing both their time and their temper in the operation?
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, that while he admitted his belief that the Bill would be inoperative, he opposed it because it would affirm a had principle.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had been vehement in their objections to the creation of the market proposed by the Bill; they now asserted that the market could never be started, even if the Bill passed. Nothing would suit the Liberal opponents of the Bill. Why could they not allow it to pass? They would do so if they really believed, as they said, that none but lunatics would advance money under the Bill towards the expenses of the market. It might be true that the City
 1763
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that if the Bill was now inoperative it was because the exertions of hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House had made it so. They had succeeded in sweeping away the proposals to rate the inhabitants of the metropolis, and to raise the necessary security by increasing the tolls in the market at Islington; a concession had also been made in the case of sheep, and in those three important respects the Bill had thus been rendered innocuous. In fact the financial part of the scheme had completely broken down. The Bill must be a complete failure. He should be glad, however, to understand explicitly from the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) whether the report was correct that the Court of Common Council had refused to consider the Bill unless the compensation clauses were withdrawn, and further whether the noble Lord intended to secure the support of the City by abandoning those clauses, or to retain them and encounter the opposition of the City?
 MR. AYRTON  said, the only object in pressing the Bill was to get the vicious principle it contained confirmed, and for that same reason he opposed it. ["Divide !"] As the Committee seemed indisposed to continue the discussion, he would move that they should report Progress.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he must complain that while hon. Gentlemen opposite listened with great attention to charges brought against his side of the House, they met his vindication with persistent interruption. He was not disposed to submit to that. He maintained it was a false charge to say that his side of the House was doing what was absurd and inconsistent. There was
 1764
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I did not say we had received a tender; but that we had reason to believe that persons would come forward with the money.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I contend that this is a measure of confiscation. One individual will be deprived of property which, if sold in the market, would fetch £7,000 or £8,000. You are going to prevent the constituents of the Member for the Tower Hamlets from using their freehold property as the law allows them, though the Committee has decided that such a taking away of private property for the public benefit cannot be carried out without compensation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise to Order. The question is, whether certain persons should be appointed Commissioners? and the hon. Gentleman is going into the question of compensation.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : That is a reason why they should not be appointed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is not competent now to discuss it.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The Amendment does not involve the question of compensation.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Well, then, you propose to appoint Commissioners; I object to your appointing Commissioners. And why do I object? Because you have told us distinctly that these Commissioners are not to be provided with any funds. If you appoint Commissioners to take away property for which the owners are entitled to compensation, those Commissioners must be provided with money to give that compensation. This measure reminds one of the times of the French Revolution. ["Oh, oh!"] It is all very well for hon. Gentlemen to cry "Oh !" whose estates are not going to be meddled with; but if they were the owners of valuable wharves and landing-
 1765 1766
 THE CHAIRMAN : The right hon. Gentleman is out of Order.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was as favourable as the Government could be to the principle of this Bill, and he did not approve some of the means which had been used in the course of these discussions to defeat it. But he wanted to make an appeal to the Government. It was quite clear that the market, if it was to be established, would involve a large expenditure of money. If they were in earnest—and he was in earnest in wishing to see it established—they ought to provide money for it. It appeared to him that they must have one of three things—either they must have rinderpest continually in this country; or they must seriously interfere with the internal traffic in cattle; or they must have all foreign cattle killed on their arrival. He believed the last was the best course to adopt; but he thought that in bringing in a Bill with that object the Government ought not to ask the approval of Parliament to a measure which would have no effect. If the carrying out of the Bill would involve a large expenditure of money the Government ought to show Parliament there was some reasonable exectation that the money would be forthcoming. To do them justice, he must say they had tried to do so. They had first proposed that the money should come from a body having large estates—the Corporation of London—and that the Corporation should depend upon the prospect of being re-paid by tolls. But he understood it was now admitted—in this, perhaps, he might be wrong—that the Corporation were not willing to take the matter up.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : They are not willing to bind themselves.
 MR. LOWE  said, be was not astonished at that, because already they had a large market by which they were losing money. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Milner Gibson) had said that the Corporation resisted this Bill because it would not benefit their constituents. Not at all. They resisted it because they had an interest in another market. Then the Government had proposed that the market should be established by rates to be levied by the Metropolitan Board of Works; but he did not wonder that there should be a strong objection in the metropolis to have the expense of what was a national object thrown on the inhabi-
 1767
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he desired to know—supposing there was no difficulty about security—how the charge of £12,000 (4 per cent upon £300,000) a year was to be met for the first few years of the trust, and where the money was to come from to pay the interest of the money borrowed. If compensation was given, there would be no funds to pay the interest, and if the interest was paid there would be no money to pay the compensations.
 MR. DE GREY  said, he thought it was evident that the intention of hon. Members on the other side was to defeat the measure by any means in their power. Their opposition was elaborately obstructive, and it might save time if the right hon. Gen-
 1768
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that the Bill, if carried, would probably be inoperative; and why, therefore, should it be pressed? ["No !"] Well, where was the money to be procured by means of which to carry out the provisions of the Bill?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question had been repeatedly answered. He had stated several times that if the matter were left to the Commissioners they would have nothing but the tolls as a security for raising the money. The Corporation so raised money when the Islington Cattle Market Bill was passed. He had been assured that in the event of the Bill passing persons could be found who would be willing to advance money upon that security, and also that there would be no practical difficulty in constructing the market. In reply to remarks of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), he could only say that a monopoly would be secured to the market as far as cattle coming into the port of London, and sheep coming with them, were concerned; though if the right hon. Gentleman were of opinion that the security was insufficient, it would, of course, be open to him to move that no cattle should come into the metropolitan area, except through that market.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he felt assured that his right hon. Friend the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) had no intention of interposing a difficulty. In his opinion, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had failed to give a satisfactory answer to the question as to how the money was to be raised. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, indeed, that he understood parties were ready to lend money on the security of the tolls; but he had omitted to mention how much money they were willing to lend, and for what purposes. This pecuniary part of the business had naturally been examined by the Common Council, who had estimated that £500,000 would be required to construct the market, and had arrived at the conclusion that, even if the interest was at a very moderate rate, there would be a deficiency on the Foreign Cattle Market Account of no less than £13,000 a year. It was true that in the case of the Islington Market the Corporation had had only the
 1769
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he understood that parties who obtained compensation would have a lien upon the tolls. A remedy was provided in the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, and he believed that any person entitled to compensation might, if necessary, appoint a receiver to take in his behalf the tolls of the market, ["No, no!"] At all events, he was of opinion that under the last clause every such person would have a legal mode of enforcing his rights. It was evident, therefore, that persons advancing money on the security of the tolls would take into consideration the circumstance that the individuals who were entitled to compensation would be able to enforce their rights and get possession of the revenues of the market. He did not know what would be the amount required for building the market, but he imagined it would be considerably less than the sum named by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Gladstone). He had been informed, indeed, that only £300,000 would be required for that purpose, though he could not say what the compensation would amount to. Persons concerned in promoting the Bill had informed him that £100,000 would be a very liberal estimate for purchasing the freehold of all the premises used in the cattle trade, and of course if those premises were devoted to other purposes, the amount of compensation would be very small. Under all the circumstances he thought the,
 1770
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the persons advancing the money might probably require the rules to be made more stringent than they would be as the Bill now stood. At present the Privy Council could make rules as to slaughtering cattle, which would interfere with the market. He understood that the offer of money did not include capital for compensation.
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, it was his opinion that no part of the money to be borrowed under the Bill would be applicable to compensation. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was clearly wrong in his interpretation of the Bill. The mortgagees would have nothing to do with compensation. They would get an immediate first charge upon all the tolls, apart entirely from compensation, and in point of fact the Bill was entirely deficient in any means whatever for providing compensation.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he must again protest against the Bill being proceeded with, and the property of his constituents confiscated without any security for their being indemnified.
 MR. SAMUELSON  said, that no means had been provided for making this market, and the Bill would be totally inoperative.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, he understood that parties were willing to lend the necessary funds, and that the market authority could create a mortgage on the tolls in respect of such loan.
 MR. COWEN  said, he was convinced
 1771
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  said, the Bill provided for raising £300,000, which was £200,000 short of the sum required for opening the market. The people who advanced this would be empowered to sweep away the whole tolls of the market, and no means whatever of giving compensation were provided.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that if the sum of £300,000 were not sufficient the figures might be altered, and a sum sufficient to build and to compensate inserted in the Bill. He thought that sum should be £500,000. If the market authority was not provided with the means of compensating there would be an end of the Bill.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he regretted the want of security in the Bill for compensation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that what had fallen from the hon. Member for Dover (Mr. Freshfield) had taken him by surprise. That Gentleman had said that the estimated cost of the market, including compensation, would amount to £500,000. That was not the case. The opinion of the financial agents of the Bill was that £300,000 would be an extravagant estimate, including compensation. Those agents stated that the fee simple of all the property for which compensation could be claimed would not amount to £100,000, and that those who claimed compensation would find it difficult to prove any appreciable loss of trade from the operation of the Bill.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he wished to know whether the clause relating to the Islington tolls that had been withdrawn was not in existence last winter?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, it was not in existence a week ago.
 MR. AYRTON  asked whether the substance of it had not been made known in the winter?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied in the negative.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  called attention to the fact that this clause was not in the Bill, and there was no necessity for discussing it.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought up a Paper prepared by his agent which contained a statement of the sum required for compensation; but did the right hon. Gentleman vouch for its accuracy? And who is his agent? Did anyone ever hear of
 1772
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Parliamentary agent promoting the Bill was his authority for the figures he had laid before the Committee.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the best authority was the hon. Member for Dover (Mr. Freshfield), who was a Member of the Committee; and he told them the whole cost would be £500,000. They ought not to proceed with the Bill until they should learn what was the source from which the £200,000 required for compensations was to be derived.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, the Bill was a merely permissive measure, and could not be carried into effect unless the money were found. He therefore saw nothing to justify the pertinacious opposition it had encountered. That opposition seemed to him to be nothing short of factious.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that no one would advance money on the security afforded by the Bill. He hoped that the Committee would not stultify itself by appointing the proposed Commissioners.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that this Question involved considerations which the Committee had not yet even approached. He moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he was on the point of rising to make the same Motion, and he need not therefore say that he assented to it.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he hoped that if the Motion were agreed to, the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets would give some assurance that he would not interpose these obstructions to the future progress of the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had not the least desire to interpose obstructions, if hon. Members would only listen with patience to what he had to say.
 SIR PERCY BURRELL  said, he must complain of the manner in which the hon.
 1773 usque ad nauseam.
 MR. GLADSTONE , having pointed out the alterations made in the Bill by the other House, said, that he had some doubts whether they were all improvements; but as none of them were inconsistent with the primary object of the Bill—the abolition of the compulsory collection of church rates—he was willing to accept them. He would, therefore, move to agree to the Amendments made by the Lords.
 LORD STANLEY : The only Answer that I can give the hon. Member is that since the month of May last—at which time I laid on the table Papers on the subject of Crete—no information has reached me which is of the slightest general interest or importance. The fact is that the state of things in the island has continued pretty much as it was. The attention of European diplomacy has been diverted to other subjects. I have looked through all the despatches which I have received since the period I have named, and I do not think there is any one of them of such general interest or importance as to make it worth while to lay it on the table of the House. It is not at all a question of keeping back any facts or any statements of opinion on grounds of
 1748
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he regretted that he had not had leisure to read the evidence taken before the Committee from beginning to end, but so far as he had read it he entirely differed from the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate), who thought that the investigation had been conducted upon the plan
 1746 1747
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he rose to call the attention of the Government and the House to a practical grievance seriously affecting the interests of his constituents at Newcastle-on-Tyne. Some years ago his constituents had an important and valuable trade in foreign cattle, partly derived from Denmark and Schleswig-Holstein, about the best grazing country in the whole world. That trade had contributed materially to increase the comforts and luxuries of the people of the district, but owing to the operation of the Orders in Council enforced by the Government it had been practically destroyed. Grave injury had been done to his constituents through their not being allowed to import any cattle from the districts to which he had referred except under restrictions that were fatal to the carrying on of the trade. He had sought to bring about a reasonable compromise, under which the law now
 1750
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he believed that before long they would have to get up the same battle against the beef and mutton laws as they formerly waged against the Corn Laws. The hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Read) furnished him with a paper yesterday which stated that there were 22,000,000 sheep in this country, and that 5,500 had died from the disease. There could be no pretence for keeping out sheep upon this ground.
 MR. J. B. SMITH : There could be no doubt that the object was to place obstructions in the way of the importation of foreign beasts.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he hoped some reply would be given on the part of the Government to the statements and arguments that had been put forward from that (the Opposition) side of the House. He was one of those who thought it a good system under which restraints on the importation of foreign cattle were remitted to the Privy Council, for if they went beyond or fell short of their duty they could be called to account by Parliament. This, however, proceeded on the assumption that when hon. Members made statements in a becoming manner in behalf of their constituents the Members of the Government whose conduct was challenged would feel it their duty to rise for the purpose of giving an explanation. Now, this appeared to be a case in which a good system was not well administered, or in which one portion of that administration was grossly inconsistent with another portion. The ports of this country, from the West Coast of Scotland southwards, and round the Southern Coast up to the mouth of the Thames, were allowed the privilege of importing cattle from Spain, Portugal, and France. France, as he understood, was a country where importation was open, subject to vigilant observation from all the rest of the world—these things, he was afraid, being managed there infinitely better than here, and an example being set us, which we had not the wit to follow, of securing the health of the cattle without impeding trade or raising the price of food. Now, why was the importation of cattle from France permitted when France did not exclude foreign cattle in the way desired in this country? The main question, however, which he wished to put was, why the privilege of importing cattle from
 1753
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that before the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council rose, he wished to repeat his Question of the morning respecting the reported outbreak of the cattle plague in Russia.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Vice President of the Privy Council a Question of which he had given him private Notice—namely, Whether his attention has been called to the report which has appeared in one of the morning journals that an outbreak of Cattle Plague had occurred on the Continent of Europe; and, whether any official information on the subject of that report has reached him; and, if not, whether he will take immediate steps to ascertain whether or not that report is accurate?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, in reply, that about a week ago the Government received official intelligence that an outbreak of cattle plague had occurred in Egypt, and that morning he had seen a telegraphic communication stating that there had also been outbreaks of that disease in St. Petersburg and in other districts of Russia. He was not aware that any official intelligence had been received with respect to the latter occurrence, but he would take care to inform himself whether such was the case or not by nine o'clock that evening.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that since the Question of his hon. Friend the Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) was put to him at the Morning Sitting, he had ascertained that information on the subject had been received at the Office, and he found the report alluded to by his hon. Friend was perfectly true. There had been an outbreak of Siberian plague in Livonia and other provinces, and also of rinderpest near St. Petersburg. Cattle plague had also broken out in Lower Egypt, at Gheza and Gezera, near Cairo, and other districts. In answer to the Question of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goschen), he had to state that that clause was framed on the proposition of one of the officers of the Corporation of the City of London; that that officer was mainly instrumental in drawing the clause; that he had laid it on the table after that gentleman had drawn it, and that he was not responsible for its informality.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that having already spoken on the Motion for Adjournment, he must solicit the indulgence of the House in answering the questions and representations which had been addressed to him. The hon. Members who had urged complaints had failed to trace the effect to the proper cause. They had
 1754 1755
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer in reference to the Metropolitan Foreign Cattle Market, Whether he has made any arrangement with the Corporation of the City of London for carrying out this scheme of agricultural protection, or whatever it might be called? The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated a few days ago, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson), that no definite arrangement had been come to with the Corporation on the subject. Since then, however, a Notice had been put on the Paper, developing a scheme under which it appeared that the metropolis would be taxed generally by a rate to be levied on all cattle brought to Smithfield Market. That Notice had disappeared from the Paper, and he should, therefore, like to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether any understanding had been come to with the Corporation of London for carrying out the provisions of the Bill; and, what in fact was the exact state of the negotiations between the Government and the Corporation on the matter?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he must represent that the narrative which the First Lord of the Treasury had given of the circumstances connected with this proviso was, no doubt unintentionally, not quite accurate. The object of the clause, as originally introduced by the hon. Member for Brighton, was to throw the expenses attendant on the machinery of elections upon the ratepayers for whose benefit it was assumed that Members of Parliament existed, and so help to get rid of that clement of vulgar display which had always been so corrupting an clement in elections, and which threatened to be hereafter still more rampant. At the same time it contained a provision to protect the constituencies from the contingent risk of their being infested by the pest of sham candidates advertising themselves at the hustings. The clause was well considered and fully sifted, and finally read a second time in its complete form by a not inconsiderable majority, remembering the number of Members up in town. At this stage questions were raised as to the details of the saving provision, some of them in a friendly spirit, by Members who approved of the principle, but who were doubtful as to the particular machinery. His hon. Friend the Member for Brighton, although in possession of the field, in the most good-humoured spirit
 1725 de bene esse, 1726 1727
 MR. DISRAELI : I regret that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Jacob Bright) should have found it necessary to commence the Business of this evening by such a Motion. There is no necessity for anticipating when the adjournment will occur. That depends on the progress which will be made this evening. The House may make a compensatory progress—one which will compensate for what occurred last night. But for what happened then—owing to too strict interpretation of the rules of the House—there would probably have been no necessity for anticipating a meeting tomorrow. Such a necessity may even now be prevented if the House is in the cue for making progress to night; but if not, then so far as the Government can influence the decision of the House, we shall certainly do everything to expedite the progress of the Bill that is now to be considered. I hope the hon. Gentleman will not ask the House to come yet to a decision with regard to the adjournment, because later in the evening we shall be able to form a better conclusion as to the course we ought to take. The hon. Gentleman has not been long in the House; but so far as I have observed, he has never taken any step that did not entitle him to the respect and consideration of the House. But I observe that the Motion has been seconded by a right hon. Gentleman who has great experience of the House, and I am surprised that a Gentleman, once a Minister of the Crown, knowing, as he must, how important is the discreet management of the time of the House with a view to the proper conduct of Public Business, should have advised the hon. Gentleman to take a course which I certainly do not think will recommend itself to the general opinion of the House.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he could assure the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon) that one of the principal objects of the Bill, which he (Mr. Disraeli) had had the honour to introduce, was to prevent any undue advantage being given to wealth in the election of Members of Parliament; and he hoped that that purpose was apparent in most of its clauses. The hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) seemed to complain that he had not been fairly treated by the Government or the House in reference to his clause. But he (Mr. Disraeli) wished to remind the hon. Member and the House that they had never had from the hon. Member a complete
 1718 1719 stans pede in uno 1720 1721
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no agreement or understanding with the City Corporation. An Amendment of which Notice had been given by his noble Friend the Vice President of the Council had been withdrawn from the Paper, because they understood from the highest authority that it was against the Standing Orders. That Amendment therefore would not be proceeded with.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that since Progress had been reported Her Majesty's Government had considered the position in which they stood to this Bill, and had come to the conclusion that it was hopeless to proceed further with it this Session. The great majorities which had voted in repeated divisions had shown a very decided opinion on the part of the House in favour of the principle of the Bill and the necessity for such a measure. The difficulty, however, which had arisen in consequence of the City having declined to accept the market authority, and the very strong opposition to the further progress of the Bill, had put the Government in a position of so much difficulty that they did not feel justified in asking the House to spend any further time in discussing the measure during the present Session. The only course open to them, therefore, under the circum-
 1774
 MR. MONK  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House, further Correspondence respecting the Disturbances in Crete, in continuation of Correspondence presented to Parliament, May 21, 1868. He thought he was justified in putting the question to the noble Lord, seeing that the documents to which he referred had been published in the  St. Petersburg Gazette,
 MR. NEATE  said, he could not forego the present opportunity of calling the attention of the Government and the House to the Report from the Select Committee on the Bristol Election Petition, because he had given way on two previous occasions; and if he consented to do so now, another opportunity might not be afforded him. He considered the purity of the British elector far more important than that of British cattle. He could not help thinking that Her Majesty's Government were very little inclined to adopt serious measures for the repression of bribery and corruption, notwithstanding the pretentious pressing forward of the Bill which had been passed, otherwise they would have advised the Crown to issue a Commission. He quite admitted the purity of the Committee that tried the Petition, but he admired their simplicity more than their purity. The Committee had reported that it did not appear to them that, considering the large constituency Bristol possessed, bribery extensively prevailed. Any one who read the evidence, and was made acquainted with the position of some of the persons who took part in that bribery, would probably come to a very different conclusion. He thought if they had had regard, not only to the cases that were actually proved, but to those witnesses who had stayed away under suspicious circumstances, their Report would have been of a more decided character. It appeared to him to be the desire of all parties that just sufficient bribery should be proved to unseat the Member, and that all the rest should be hushed up. He wished to know whether the Attorney General had read the evidence, and, if so, whether it was his intention to prosecute the bribers, two at least of whom had also been guilty of subornation of perjury? He wished also to know, supposing the offenders were out of the way, what excuse the Government could have for not offering a reward for their apprehension? He regretted that Bristol had not been disfranchised, like Yarmouth and Totnes, at least for seven years.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, he thought that his constituents at Hull also had a right to complain of their not being allowed the same privilege as was possessed by the ports of Liverpool and Southampton. The port of Liverpool had the advantage of being represented by two Gentlemen who sat on the Ministerial side of the House. Some time ago the Government was urged to allow the port of Liverpool to import cattle from Spain, Portugal, and France, and that privilege was conceded by the Government. The port of Southampton, which had also the advantage of having a Member who sat on the Ministerial side, obtained a similar privilege. Now, why had not that privilege been extended to Hull and other Northern ports? The reason seemed to be that as the hon. Members for these towns sat upon the Liberal side of the House their remonstrances had less weight with the Government. There was no good reason for stopping cattle coming from Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. The noble Lord the Vice President of the Council told him the other day that there was no port in Denmark proper from which cattle could be exported, but the fact was that there were five such ports. The cattle trade of Hull had been ruined. In 1865 no less than £27,000 was paid for the conveyance of cattle to Hull, and they sent in one
 1751
 MR. SEELY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, with reference to the extracts which he read on; the 2nd and 13th instant, If he will lay
 1714 Ocean,
 MR. READ  said, he was anxious to reduce the costs of Parliamentary Elections, but he objected to do it at the expense of the ratepayers. If it were possible to levy a fair rate for the boroughs it would be very difficult to make it with any amount of justice on the counties. One-half of the freeholders of his division of the county lived in Parliamentary boroughs in the city of Norwich or out of the county, and besides that one-half of the ratepayers were not voters, and the result would be that in his county the great bulk of the expense would fall on the non-electors and farmers of the county.
 MR. READ : The sheep brought the cattle plague.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that his constituents suffered from the prohibition of which the hon. Member for Newcastle complained. Leith—the port of Edinburgh—as hon. Members knew, was the great entrepôt of the foreign cattle trade of Scotland. A very large number of animals had been brought there, not merely for consumption in Edinburgh, but for consumption in Glasgow, with its 500,000 inhabitants, and in all the towns around Glasgow. A large trade had existed in that way, but the Orders of the Privy Council had paralyzed that trade. In these circumstances, he hoped Her Majesty's Government would be prepared with some measure to relax the stringency of the laws which now existed, and to take away all impediments which were not absolutely necessary for the safety of the cattle of the United Kingdom. It was quite true that those whom he represented obtained a large supply of meat from the northern portions of Scotland; but if they were to be confined to that—if there was to be no competition with foreign cattle—were they not in the very same position as if they were told that they must depend for bread upon their home-grown corn? If obstructions were put in the way of foreign cattle, the Mr. Norwood
 1752
 MR. HOWES : Sir, as Chairman of the Bristol Election Committee, I must express my opinion that a Committee has rarely met that was more anxious to come to a fair and impartial conclusion. We were bound by Act of Parliament to say whether
 1745
 MR. PEMBERTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If the Government have come to any decision as to the mode of disposing of old ships; and, whether there is any truth in the report that the Government intended to close Sheerness Dockyard?
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he must utterly deny that the evidence taken before the Committee, which he believed was as fair a one as ever sat, justified the supposition that corrupt practices had been carried on in Bristol to such an extent as would require the issue of a Royal Commission. No doubt bribery was carried on to a certain extent, and personation also; but suppose there were 500 such cases in a constituency of 13,000 persons, that could be no reason for proceeding against the city, or attempting to disfranchise it. He did not know whether Her Majesty's Law Officers would think it worth their while to crush the poor wretches implicated in these practices, many of whom had been driven to them by want, and some of whom had perjured themselves for 6 s.
 MR. CORRANCE  said: As one of the county Members on this side of the House, who upon a former occasion expressed opinions not in accordance with the views of those among whom we sit, perhaps I may ask the indulgence of the House for a few moments, which may suffice to explain myself upon certain points. Of this whole Bill let me first say this, that it seems to me to possess a value beyond that of the mere penalties inflicted for an offence—beyond that even of a measure having a deterrent effect. Sir, it expresses a moral sentiment which upon the country will not be lost, and which will strengthen the hands of Parliament to govern this country. Modern Governments must rest upon re-
 1731 sui generis, 1732
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I am not aware, Sir, that I took any exception to the Motion.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I at once bow, Sir, to the decision you have given on that point, and I am quite willing to say I am very sorry I used any expression supposed to be irregular. I took no exception to the Motion for Adjournment from this day to Monday; but I beg to say it is not required, because this House would stand adjourned to Monday by the Order which you, Sir, have read, if no Motion was made.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I was remarking that if the right hon. Gentleman opposite would say he supported the Motion for the sake of independent Members—[Mr. MILNER GIBSON: I did say so.]—The right hon. Gentleman did not say he did it for the sake of independent Members, but he said they had Motions upon the Paper which they would be able to bring forward on the Motion for the Adjournment. But a noble Friend of mine opposite (Lord Elcho), whose name stands first on the Paper, is not here to bring on his Motion—I presume on the supposition that there would be no such Motion for Adjournment. It is notorious that at the end of a Session, when the right hon. Gentleman has been a Member of the Government, as well as while the present Government has been in Office, sittings have been held on a Saturday when Public Business required them; and it is notorious that there is now Public Business which may necessitate a Saturday Sitting. If this
 1743
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was quite ready for a division, and if the House were of that opinion his object would be answered. He would remind the House that there was not even a Notice of a clause on the Paper to be introduced into the Bill if the Bill was re-committed. With the various Amendments that had been proposed and the discussion that had taken place upon them, what chance was there of their agreeing to a clause?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The: honesty and candour of the right hon. Gentleman are so well known in this House, and also the manner in which he has conducted the opposition to a Bill be fore the House, that of course everyone will appreciate the language he has now used. If the right hon. Gentleman, with the candour and honesty which are so conspicuous in him, will rise in his place and say it is for the sake of independent Members he has made the speech he has just addressed to us, and if he will tell us it has nothing to do with that factious opposition to the Bill—
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  rose to Order. He believed that the Motion for Adjournment must be put before a Motion for fixing the adjournment to a particular day.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that that morning only the Papers to which the hon. Gentleman referred reached the Home Office, consisting of a Memorial from the accused in his own favour, to which was attached a statement of a person who was in custody. He had directed that the Papers should be immediately sent to the Assistant Judge who tried the case, in order that he might receive the learned Judge's notes and such comments as he might think fit to make upon the case before he took further steps in the matter.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that this was a Question which should be made perfectly clear to the House. The Question of the hon. Member was whether he would lay upon the table of the House a statement which a man made in his own favour in order to obtain compensation from the public? and, in reply, he (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) begged to state that he did not think it expedient that such a course should be adopted. This was a case where a gentleman who thought that he had done great service to the public had entered into a long correspondence with a particular Department of the Government for the purpose of obtaining a favourable consideration of his claims, which had been already rejected. The gentleman had other modes of bringing the correspondence before the
 1715
 MR. DIXON  said, if there should be an objection to the proposed clause that it would not work well in the counties, they might in Committee make it applicable only to boroughs. He maintained that the expenses incurred at election contests by the returning officer would be reduced by one-half, or possibly by two-thirds, if those expenses fell upon the ratepayers instead of the candidates, in-asmuch as the latter were regarded by the builders as fair game, and plundered in a way to which the guardians of the ratepayers' money would never think of submitting. Last year, in the borough
 1717
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he wished to know whether it was not the fact that the Court of Common Council, or the Markets Committee of that body, had been called together to give an answer to the proposal which was to have been submitted by the Government, although that proposal was in violation of the Standing Orders of that House, and whether, through not
 1749
 MR. LEEMAN  said, it was evident that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had benefited very largely by the education which he received yesterday from the Solicitor General. On the broad question of the principle of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett's) proposal the right hon. Gentleman had not said a single syllable, and yesterday the Solicitor General sheltered himself under a mere naked technicality. There had
 1722 ad nauseam 1723
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he rose to move as an Amendment that the Bill be re-committed, with the object of bringing up a clause relating to election expenses. His object was not to reverse a decision already arrived at; but he was induced to take this course, because, in consequence of the tactics adopted by the Government, he had been prevented from adding to the clause on which the House divided yesterday a proviso which originally belonged to it, protecting constituencies against unnecessary and factious contests, and consequently a false issue had been raised,
 1716
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether a Circular has been sent to Her Majesty's Missions Abroad, notifying that no person in the Diplomatic or Consular Service who has not now an Agent at the Foreign Office will be allowed to take one; and, whether it is intended to make any arrangement to enable those who will be without Agents to draw their salaries; and, if so, whether those who now have Agents will be allowed to profit by any such arrangement?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, Whether it is the intention of the Metropolitan Board of Works to give the necessary notices to the owners and occupiers of houses in Hamilton Place, in order to enable the next Parliament, should it think it expedient, to carry out the recommendations of the Private Bill Committee, to which was referred the Bill to widen and improve Park Lane?
 MR. JACOB BRIGHT  said, he rose to move that the House at its rising should adjourn till Monday. It was a hard thing that hon. Members who had spent their days and nights in the House for the last week should have to come down again on Saturday.
 MR. JACOB BRIGHT  said, that there was occasions when a Saturday Sitting was perfectly legitimate; but they were not in that position now, and he therefore objected to their having to assemble tomorrow.
 MR. CLAY  said, that the noble Lord had stated that the only reason for not granting to the North-eastern ports the privilege granted to Liverpool was that there was no trade in Spanish cattle with those ports. Now, without entering into the question of the extent of the cattle trade between Spain and the Eastern ports, he wished to know what proof there was that, under present circumstances, the trade might not prove a paying one, when other ports prosecuted it so beneficially. He would claim, on the very grounds advanced by the noble Lord, that the Northeastern ports should be declared open for the entry of those cattle.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he was one of those who had a Notice on the Paper to be discussed on the Motion for Adjournment, and for whom the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gibson) had so much consideration. But as he considered that the Cattle Market Bill was of much greater importance than his Motion, he had great pleasure in withdrawing it for the sake of securing progress to a measure in which the interests of his own country, as well as England, were concerned.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, it was not the practice for county authorities to levy a uniform rate of so much in the pound on the different parishes. The practice was to call for so much from each of them in a lump sum. Each union in a county was called upon to contribute its quota, according to its rateable value. At the present time certain rates were levied by union districts, and nothing would be more easy than to levy the sum necessary for defraying election expenses by a rate upon those unions which were included in the district for which the election was held. He thought this proposal would entirely get rid of the, technical difficulty raised by the Solicitor General. Neither was there any necessity for levying an amount in excess of what would be actually required. The exact sum could be as easily levied.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that the noble Lord had not touched the case of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lancashire; and, besides, the noble Lord was in error with respect to the commercial facts. The right hon. Gentleman had asked why Spanish cattle, which were permitted to come to the South and West Coast, were not permitted to come to the East Coast; and all the noble Lord had to say in reply was that there was a special trade between Liverpool find Spain which did not extend to the Northeast Coast, and, therefore, the cattle would not come there. If there was no importation of cattle at present from Spain or Portugal into the North-eastern ports, why impose any restrictions? That was a very good reason why the noble Lord should stand aside and not interfere. The trade, if a natural trade, would soon develope itself. But he was prepared to state, in opposition to the noble Lord, that there existed a large trade between Spain and the ports of Hull, Aberdeen, Sunderland, and Newcastle. There were large imports of ore, which was a very heavy cargo, and to fill up the unoccupied space necessarily left in vessels loaded with such cargo, cattle could be easily and most advantageously imported from Spain to these North-eastern ports.
 MR. SPEAKER  was understood to say that the hon. Member for Manchester was in Order, though the course mentioned by
 1738
 MR. SPEAKER : I have already pointed out to the House that the course taken is not out of Order.
 MR. SPEAKER : Under the circumstances of the case I certainly think that the expression of the right hon. Gentleman was too strong a one.
 MR. SPEAKER : Supply being at an end, that no longer avails, and the Motion for Adjournment is required.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must ask the House, at the commencement of its sitting, to conduct itself with more moderation. The Motion which has been made is not an unusual one; on the contrary, it is a perfectly regular and justifiable Motion. The Standing Order is as follows:—
 "That while the Committees of Supply and Ways and Menus are open, the House, when it meets on Friday, shall, at its rising, stand adjourned until the following Monday, without any question being put, unless the House shall otherwise resolve." 1742
 MR. FLOYER  said, that, as he understood it, the question was this—How could a county rate be levied on the different divisions of a county which had been divided for election purposes? He should not for a moment dispute the authority of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley). True, there would be no great difficulty in levying a rate in one of several districts of a county; but you must not only levy the rate and receive your money, but you must know how to spend it for the parties who had paid it. Now, Somersetshire had been divided into three divisions for election purposes; and, taking it as an illustration, he asked what would happen if there was 'an election in one division and not in the two others, supposing the clause of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett), to be added to the Bill? It was well known that county rate was levied by fixing on some aliquot portion of 1 d. d. 1724
 MR. HENNIKER-MAJOR  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, What course the Government, seeing the nature of the opposition to this Bill, intended to take upon it?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, if he understood the First Minister of the Crown aright ho rather regretted that the proposition of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) was not carried with a proper proviso, and, as the Liberal party were anxious that it should not be lost, he believed that throe or four Gentlemen, if they were earnest in the matter, could in three or four minutes prepare a perfect clause. He would remind the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) that on one division the proposal was carried in Committee by a majority of 84 to 74. He did not think that a thin House.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down seems to think that unexpensiveness and purity of election is a matter which affects the electors only, and that the non-electors have no interest in the matter—a view in which I confess I do not share. I do not propose to revive the question of how far the Government has treated us fairly in regard to this matter. We must accept the statement of the First Minister of the Crown that at the time when he replied to the question of the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) the Government had no intention of opposing this clause. But when the right hon. Gentleman proceeds to give a history—the correctness of which is countersigned by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley)—of what has passed, and says that the House have rejected as ineffectual all propositions to reconcile the scheme of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) with the desirableness of giving security against vexatious contests, I cannot assent to the correctness of his statement. There was not one of the proposals made which would not, in the opinion of the supporters of the clause, have proved perfectly effectual. The objections did not
 1730
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether his attention has been called to a statement of Vice Chancellor Stuart's, in the case "Picard  v.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I deny that any Minister of the Crown has the right to say that any Member is offering a "factious opposition." I ask that the words be taken down. [ Cries of
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : If the right hon. Gentleman had not referred to me, I should not have thought it necessary to remark that it is in consequence of hon. Gentlemen opposite who are interested in the Bill, not thinking it worth while to come here last evening to make a
 1739 1740 1741
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  rose to the point of Order, and amid loud cries of "Chair."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : No; only during Committee of Supply.
 MAJOR PARKER : I beg to apologize. When an ex-Minister resorts to the dubious and unjustifiable course of trying to damage a humble Member for the agricultural interest who endeavours, as far as lies in his power, faithfully and honestly to discharge his duty, by pointing out two hon. Members below the Gangway, and saying that they were the only Members for the agricultural interest that were present, I venture to say he is guilty of a most unjustifiable remark.
 MAJOR PARKER : When an ex-Minister resorts to the contemptible course—["Order!"]
 MR ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has received any communication on behalf of a lad of the name of James Bell, who was convicted on the evidence of three policemen at the Middlesex Sessions on the 28th day of March last, (but from evidence since obtained he is supposed to be innocent); whether any copy or original Confession of a man named Daly, who was convicted on the 21st instant at the Middlesex Sessions has been received at the Home Office; and, what course the Home Secretary intends to pursue in reference to the lad James Bell?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he had a Motion on the Paper which he had not put down for the purpose of obstructing the Cattle Market Bill. He had had it down several times and had withdrawn it for the sake of Public Business; and he had put it down for this evening in anticipation of the Motion for Adjournment, and in the expectation that private Members would be able to avail themselves of their privileges. As regarded the Motion of which Notice had been given by a noble Lord who was not present (Lord Elcho), he had received a letter from the noble Lord, who said he had been obliged to go to Scotland, and, if he had not, he feared that had he brought on his Motion, he would have been counted out. Seeing the present excited state of the bucolic mind of the House, he should certainly withdraw the Motion of which he had given Notice.
 MR. COWEN  said, he could answer for his constituents that they would not abuse any relaxation of the existing rules which might be granted to them. On a former occasion he suggested the withdrawal of the Bill, because it would be impossible to work it. He felt gratified that the Government had come to that determination, and lie hoped it would be found that the powers at present possessed by the Privy Council would be found sufficient.
 MR. LEEMAN  proposed, after Clause 19, to insert the following:—
 "The Company shall not, except under an insurance as hereinafter mentioned, be liable to pay any larger sums than the following in respect of any passenger killed or injured: (that is to say,) no greater sum in respect of any first-class passenger than four hundred pounds, in respect of any second-class passenger than three hundred pounds, in respect of any third-class passenger than two hundred pounds; but any sum so payable shall be in addition to any claim under an insurance." 1782
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, this was a very difficult question. The hon. and learned Member had stated the case very ably on the part of the railway companies, and it could not be denied that excessive damages had been awarded in many instances. It was also true that the principle of limitation of liability had been conceded in the case of shipowners who were not actually in fault, where the liability, under certain circumstances, was confined to £15 a ton up to the value of the ship; so with regard to animals, by the Railway
 1783 1784
 MR. LAING  said, he thought the latter argument of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Cave) the only forcible one. He admitted that a law should not be made for railway companies which did not apply to coach proprietors and carriers generally. The railway companies desired nothing but what was fair and reasonable; and he, for one, would rather see the figures fixed by Government. The railway companies wished to do all that was possible to ensure the safety of the passengers. He asked the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Leeman) to withdraw the clause, with a view to the introduction of a Bill, in the next Session of Parliament, on the whole subject of the responsibility to make good damages arising from accidents while travelling.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped that if the Government did undertake to consider the subject during the Recess they would not be regarded as pledged to accept the principle of the clauses. He did not wish to see the settlement of claims taken away from the cognizance of juries. The subject was a large and difficult one. He could not conceive anything more objectionable than that every time a man went a journey he should be obliged to pay 6 d 1785
 MR. NORWOOD  said, that Lord Campbell's Act had acted most injuriously upon passenger traffic in steam vessels, for many shipowners now refused to carry passengers upon any terms, for fear of the liability which that Act threw upon them in the event of an accident ensuing.
 MR. CLAY  pointed out that it was a common practice for passengers to insure their own lives when travelling by railway.
 MR. NEATE  said, he was in favour of a high minimum of compensation without relation to the class of carriage by which the person who was injured might travel. It should be put upon a general average.
 MR. LEEMAN  expressed himself satisfied with the assurance that had been given on the part of the Government, and withdrew his clauses.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had no objection to the reference to the masters of the Court of Queen's Bench; but he objected to the extension of the subject beyond railway companies, and suggested the omission of the words "or any corporation."
 MR. STACPOOLE  seconded the clause.
 MR. BLAKE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) had on this occasion showed more good sense than ho exhibited when lust he pressed a similar clause on the attention of the House. Were the hon. and learned Gentleman now prepared to pursue the same course, he (Mr. Blake) should have to appeal to the House to reject his clause. The hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Ennis (Mr. Stacpoole) said that the Waterford and Limerick Railway did everything it could to inconvenience the traffic of the country. Now what were the facts? The company referred to were working this line at a small profit to the shareholders, and on the Ennis line, in which the hon. Members for Clare and Ennis were interested, the traffic was conducted at a loss. He would add, too, that the line was kept up almost exclusively at the expense of a private individual, a friend of his own. He would like to ask the hon. Members who I were in favour of having this line worked on Sundays what number of shares they had in it?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN : None at all.
 MR. STACPOOLE : None at all.
 MR. BLAKE  remarked that he thought that was the case. His hon. Friends were, doubtless, too sensible to invest their money in a speculation in which they would be unable to get a return for it, and yet they expected that that private gentleman to whom he referred, who worked the line for six days in the week at a loss, should work it on the seventh also, and that too for their own convenience when travelling about to sec their constituents. It was a thing altogether unjustifiable that the 800  employés
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  observed that the law was the same in both countries. Neither in England nor in Ireland were companies compelled to run trains on Sundays. But it was provided that if any railway company ran a passenger train at all on Sunday it should also run a cheap train. He thought it better to leave the law as it stood. Such an alteration as the hon. and learned Baronet proposed would lead to great dissatisfaction in many quarters.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  then moved the following clause:—
 "And all Railway Companies shall, from and after the passing of this Act, in every passenger train where there are more carriages than one of each class, provide smoking compartments for each class of passengers."
 MR. LEEMAN  opposed the clause, and thought that the better course would be to leave the matter in the hands of the directors of railway companies, who would
 1788
 MR. LAING  thought that in the case of the main lines of the principal companies the custom already prevailed of providing smoking carriages; but on many of the cross country lines they were unnecessary; and it would be a cause of great expense if all companies, under all circumstances, were compelled to find special and separate accommodation for smokers. He thought that the better way would be for the House to leave the whole subject to be regulated by railway directors, who would, he was sure, do that which was most acceptable to the great body of the passengers using their lines.
 MR. NEATE  said, he was decidedly in favour of the clause, for he considered the proposal to provide smoking carriages on railway trains would be a great convenience, not only to those who desired to enjoy smoking, but to those who were opposed to its indulgence. He thought that they were by no means justified in leaving this matter in the hands of railway directors, who certainly were seldom distinguished by the desire to accommodate the public. The example of the Belgian and French railway companies in the providing of smoking carriages had hitherto been thrown away upon English directors, and they had been generally deaf to the repealed representations both of individuals and of the public Press. He could see no sort of objection to the adoption of the clause.
 MR. GILPIN  opposed the clause, and said, that the principle of having smoking carriages upon the Belgian and other foreign lines had not given such general satisfaction as was supposed. He had been as much inconvenienced by smoking in carnages which were not set apart for that purpose as in those that were. He thought that the matter should be left in the hands of the directors of railway companies, and that it would be impolitic to legislate upon this subject in the manner proposed. He objected to the clause altogether. It would lead to great expense to railway companies,; for it was to be recollected that it was not that only one compartment was to be provided for
 1789
 MR. STACPOOLE  supported the clause, and believed that it would be regarded as great a convenience to the non smoker as it would be to those who smoked.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  contended that the connivance at smoking by the directors was a breach of contract with those passengers who did not smoke.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, that the way in which the by-laws of the railway companies in reference to smoking in railway carriages had been systematically violated, and which caused much inconvenience to passengers, made it most desirable that some plan should be adopted by which the inconvenience could be got rid of and thought that the plan proposed by the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan) was the best that could be devised on the subject.
 MR. WHALLEY  also supported the clause, on the ground that it would be convenient to non-smokers as well as smokers.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought this clause would tend to prevent smoking rather than to facilitate it, because the smoking department would be reduced to its narrowest limits; and when that was full passengers would be allowed to smoke in no other. He thought that the subject was one which ought to be left to the directors of railways to settle; for he believed that those directors were in the habit of providing smoking carriages when it was proved to them that the passengers using their lines were desirous of having them.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  supported the clause. He could not understand the objection to the proposal before the House on the ground of expense, seeing that there was only to be one compartment for smoking attached to each train. He did not endorse the opinion given by the hon. Member (Mr. Gilpin) in reference to smoking on railways on the Continent. There the existing regulations on the subject were very inconvenient. It occurred in his case that a young gentleman travelling in the same carriage asked him if he objected to his smoking a cigar? He (Mr. Griffith) declined to reply to the question, which had the double effect of making him appear discourteous and of causing the young gentleman to manifest annoyance during the remainder of the journey.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  thought that
 1790
 MR. LEVESON-GOWER  said, he did not think smokers had justice done to them. He must say, so far as his own experience was concerned, he had never seen any gentleman smoking in a railway carriage who, if the practice were objected to, was not ready to discontinue it. Where that was not the case, railway companies had ample powers to enforce their penalties.
 COLONEL WILSON-PATTEN  suggested that, as the question under consideration was one that interested all persons travelling by railways, it would be bettor to leave it to be settled between the Board of Trade, and the directors of railways, who, after consultation, might be able to come to some understanding on the subject. There were difficulties to be overcome, and these would be more easily obviated by such an arrangement than by the adoption of a "hard and fast line," as proposed by this clause.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he believed that three-fourths of the men who travelled by railway were smokers; and he feared there was too much truth in the representation that any arrangement such as was suggested by this clause was sure to be objected to by Directors, because it touched their pockets. If, however, those who represented the Board of Trade and the railway authorities would take this matter in hand and pledge themselves adequately to meet the convenience of the public, he would recommend his hon. Friend (Mr. H. B. Sheridan) to withdraw the clause.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  would rank himself among the non-smokers, and he thought there was very considerable inconvenience in the present system. It was unreasonable that people should be put in the position of either suffering great annoyance or appearing churlishly to interfere with the enjoyment of others. He thought the railway companies had been backward in consulting the convenience of the public in this respect. He should be happy to do all in his power to press on railway com-
 1791
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he must altogether decline to leave the matter in the hands of railway directors, and would therefore press the clause to a division.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  then said, that it ought to be inserted in the clause the day when it was to come into operation.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  objected to this addition that it would undo all that had already been agreed to. He had no objection to adopt a suggestion suggested by the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir Column O'Loghlen), that the arrangement should begin on the 1st of October.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, that there ought to be some limitation in regard to the application of the clause, for if it was made obligatory in respect to small lines of railways it would operate very oppressively.
 MR. LAING  thought there should be a dispensing power in the Board of Trade.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  suggested that the words "unless exempted by the Board of Trade "would meet the difficulty—for this would make it obligatory on railway companies generally to have these smoking compartments attached to their trains, whereas, in the case of certain small railways, the Board of Trade would have an opportunity of excusing them if it thought fit to do so.
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  then framed his Amendment in accordance with the suggestion, and also added the words
 1792
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  then moved that the following clause be added to the Bill:—
 "It shall not be lawful for any Railway Company to increase any existing rate or charge, without having previously given three months' public notice of their intention so to do."
 MR. LAING  objected to the clause.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  also objected to the clause, on the ground that it would throw an obstacle in the way of the reduction of the charges, which would be kept at a higher rate than they would be if the companies could raise them when they found the rate did not pay. The Parliamentary limits could not be exceeded in any case.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, it was the most unjust clause ever submitted to the House.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  hoped, under all the circumstances, the hon. Gentleman would withdraw it.
 MB. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would withdraw the clause.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, as his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated last night that, considering the great opposition that was offered to the measure, the Government had come to the determination of no longer asking hon. Members to put themselves to the inconvenience of attending the House for the further consideration of the Bill; he should, in accordance with that Resolution, move that the Older be discharged.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that what had just fallen from the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Read) did justice to the views of those who opposed the Bill, because he had conceded the point they had been struggling for. It was only because the principle of the Act of last year was attempted to be departed from that the House became embarrassed by the course pursued by the Government. He was glad that the Chancellor of the Exchequer in withdrawing the Bill frankly recognized the grounds on which its opponents had thought right to discuss it, and admitted that the Government were not at first fully made aware of the true bearings of the case. With respect to the financial part of the scheme, it would have been a deplorable example, if Parliament had exercised its authority to confiscate property without providing compensation, and it was a great proof of the wisdom of the rules under which the Business of the House was conducted, that a minority, powerful in argument, reason, and justice—["Oh, oh!"]—could withstand any sudden impulse by which the majority were overtaken to carry a measure pregnant with injustice and wrong. ["Oh !"] The minority upon this question represented the majority of the people. ["No, no!"]
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not aware that their names were kept secret.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said he supposed that by the term "Secret Commissioners" the I hon. Member meant the Commissioners I who took an oath of secresy not to divulge any matters they became acquainted with in the discharge of their duty. Those Secret Commissioners were selected by the whole body of Commissioners from among themselves, and the Government had nothing to do with them. He was not aware of the existence of any general discontent at the mode of their appointment, or the manner in which they performed their duty. He was aware that in the hon. Member's neighbourhood there was some agitation a few months ago in connection I with the Income tax, but he hoped that
 1775
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was most unusual, on the Motion for the withdrawal of a Bill, that there should be a sustained debate on the subject of it. He should not have taken part in the discussion but for the observations of the hon. Member for Waterford. (Mr. Blake), and the hon. and gallant Member for Queen's County (General Dunne). It must be obvious to every impartial mind that the Government had used its most strenuous endeavours to carry through the Bill, and they had been driven at the last moment to abandon it from the insuperable obstacles which it had met with in its progress through the House. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Waterford, he stated last night that he understood parties were prepared to find the money for the construction of the market; but, in the communications he had with them, compensations were not included. Compensations were merely alluded to in that sort of conversation one beard in the Lobby. The City authorities declining to become the market authority, the financial difficulty assumed greater importance than before. The financial bearings of the measure were then very different from what they were when it went before the Committee. He repeated that every effort had been made to carry the Bill, and the suspicions which his hon. and gallant Friend (General Dunne) had expressed as to the want of sincerity on the
 1781
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed that in the discussions of last night it became manifest that the present system was liable to the grossest imputations of malversation. Over and over again the Government were accused of jobbing; and that suspicion was inseparable from proceedings by Orders in Council. He expressed a hope that a Bill would be introduced upon this subject at the earliest possible period; and better framed and better financially supported than this had been. Legislation was necessary for the protection of this country against the cattle plague, which he was afraid was spreading on the Continent. It was of the greatest importance that protection in this country from rinderpest should be established by Act of Parliament, and not by Orders in Council. He hope that Government would not be discouraged by their present position, and would renew their attempt to establish efficient means of inspection, for which the natural position of the country gave every facility.
 MR. NORWOOD  thanked the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Read) for the advice which he had given to the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) with respect to relaxing the rule so far as to admit cattle from the countries where no plague existed, and he expressed a hope that it would be adopted by the noble Lord. He would nuclei take that, so far as it was in his power, there should be no stretch of any relaxations for an improper purpose at the port of Hull.
 MR. READ  extremely regretted that the Bill was to be withdrawn; but, under the circumstances, he admitted that the Government had no other alternative than to give it up, considering the shortness of the time now at their disposal and the vigorous nature of the opposition to the measure. He had been taxed with being the author of the Bill; but he distinctly denied that such was the case. If he had been its author, he should have tried to make it a national and not a metropolitan measure; and if any compensation was to be paid he thought it should be paid out of the national Exchequer, instead of the payment being imposed on the metropolis. The Bill never was, in his opinion, a strong Bill; it was weakened in the Select Committee and rendered still more feeble in the House; but he hoped that the Vice President of the Council would not during the Recess listen to any request from any quarter to relax the present restrictions in the metropolitan area, if he wished to keep the cattle plague out of the country. With respect to two or three countries where rinderpest had never existed, he did not
 1776
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he should certainly protest against the manner in which the Bill had been withdrawn after the majorities which voted in its favour; and he protested the more so because it tended to confirm the suspicion which all along existed on the independent Conservative Benches that it was never intended that the Bill should pass. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) said the minority which opposed the Bill represented the majority of the people, but that was not so—on the contrary the hon. and learned Gentleman represented only the London importers and butchers. There was a very large majority of the people of this kingdom in favour of it. It had, too, with one exception, the support of the Irish Members, who were anxious to save the country from the recurrence of a calamity which had
 1777
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask if the names of the Commissioners will be published in future? their names were not known.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Government have had in contemplation the introduction of a measure to alter the present system of assessing Income Tax in country towns and districts by the aid of secret Commissioners selected from the district; whether, in the event of no legislative proceedings being contemplated, the Government have the power, without Parliamentary sanction, to alter the present much complained of sytem of secret Local Income Tax Commissioners; and whether, if they have the power, the Government intend to make any alteration in this respect?
 MR. J. LOWTHER  trusted the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be induced to introduce a measure on this important subject next Session. As a Member of the Committee which sat for several days during the dog-days, and with what result they then saw, he would venture to say the great evil of their Bill was the very system of which the hon. Member for East Norfolk desired the extension; it was the fear lest the Privy Council should step in and relax the restrictions that indisposed the City Corporation to become the market authority. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer could levy a sum of one or two sovereigns upon every hon. Member who
 1778
 MR. BLAKE  said, he could not allow the Motion for discharging the Order to pass without protesting in the strongest manner against such a proceeding on the part of the Government, and calling on the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the absence of the Prime Minister, for an explanation of the extraordinary conduct
 1779 1780
 MR. SPEAKER  begged to suggest to the House whether it was desirable after the ample discussion that had taken place upon the Bill to further prolong it?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he hoped the Privy Council would not relax their regulations with regard to cattle during the Recess; and if the Government did not possess sufficiently stringent powers he hoped they would obtain them before they prorogued Parliament. When the rinderpest first broke out several deputations from Oxfordshire waited upon the Government, and they left with the impression that if they had the power they had not the inclination to put it into effect.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  wished only to make one suggestion, which he was sure the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) would take in good part—that if he drew up a new Bill, its provisions should be confined to cattle from suspected countries. If this were done there would very soon be no suspected countries. The two principal countries suspected were Holland and Prussia, both of which had a very valuable trade with us in their own cattle; and if they found that this trade was stopped because they allowed cattle from infected countries to pass through them, they would soon see the expediency of ceasing to do so. The proposed new market would then be superfluous, or could be made supplementary to the present market.
 MR. KENDALL  was as much surprised as anyone could be at the withdrawal of the Bill, but, At the same time, he must say that the Government had fought the battle both ably and manfully. He hoped it would go to the country who were the parties who had obstructed the Bill. It was most unjust to charge those who approved of the Rill of a desire to increase the price of meat; no such intention had ever been entertained, and it was unfair and unjust to make such statements. The Bill was rendered necessary from a fear of the return of the disease to this country.
 CAPTAIN MACKINNON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether the Admiralty have arrived at any decision as to the utilization or disposal of the many millions' worth of unarmoured Screw Line-of-Battle Ships now unused?
 ADMIRAL SEYMOUR  said, in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty, he would answer the Question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman. There were certainly a considerable number of the ships to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred in our ports, but he was afraid the hon. and gallant Member had been greatly misinformed as to their saleable value when he spoke of their being worth millions. The fact was there was no market whatever for those ships, although there was a demand for them as guard, drill, and hospital ships. The subject was now under consideration by the Select Committee upstairs, und in all probability the evidence taken before the Committee would be placed in the hands of Members in a few days.
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that he had received information that the  Tornado 1821
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask, Whether, considering that a Medal had been granted to the Troops serving in the New Zealand campaign, in 1863, it was intended to grant one to the Troops who served in the campaign of Umballah, where the loss in three months was greater than that which had occurred in three years in New Zealand?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, in reference to the Fortifications Return, No. 157, of the 26th March 1867, in which it is stated that 987 large rifled guns, and 1,104 guns of 95 cwt., at a cost of £1,833,722, will be required for the armament of the said Fortifications, it is his intention to apply the Plymouth Iron Shield, said to weigh 33 tons, or the Gibraltar Shield of 32 tons, or any other
 1817
 MR. POWELL  said, he rose to move the addition of words providing that any inmate in a workhouse, above the age of twelve years, should have the right to refuse to be instructed by such minister, after having been once visited by him. He thought that paupers ought not to have forced upon them the ministrations of persons to whom they objected. He fixed the age at twelve years, because in two other clauses of the Bill the age was named as equivalent to years of discretion.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he would suggest to the hon. Member to insert fourteen instead of twelve in his Amendment, in accordance with the age prescribed in the Industrial Schools Act.
 MR. POWELL  said, he was willing to insert "of fourteen," absolutely.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he considered it a farce to suppose that a child of twelve or fourteen years of age could form an opinion upon religion, unless it was influenced by some person who had the opportunity of speaking to it on the subject. He thought that some persons competent to examine the child should first say whether it was fit to decide for itself upon the point of religion.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he wished to ask the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) whether he would have any objection to the children being examined by the Poor Law Inspectors before requiring them to declare what particular religion they professed?
 MR. POWELL  said, that while he had no desire to proselytize, he was anxious to prevent any undue interference with the religion of the inmates of the workhouse.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he wanted the opinion of the House of Commons on this important question, but he could not hope to obtain it at that period of the Session, when the attendance of forty Members could scarcely he secured. This was not merely a question whether a young child should be the judge of his religion, but whether a person of any age, being an inmate of the workhouse, should be compelled to submit to the religious ministrations of any clergyman who might be forced upon him. The Bill required, in the first place, a Creed Register to be kept of every inmate; secondly, that such register might be inspected by the ministers of any religious denominations connected with the churches and chapels in the neighbourhood; thirdly, any such clergyman might, in accordance with the regulations of the workhouse, visit and instruct any inmate, whether he were seven or seventy years of age, whose name appeared on the register. And all this was done, forsooth, in the interests of religious liberty! He
 1873
 MR. SYNAN  said, he thought there would be no objection to the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) if it were coupled with the qualification that in the case of every such child the Poor Law Board should direct an inquiry to be made whether the child was competent to form an opinion on religious matters.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would object to that qualification in the name of his constituents. They were already too much hindered with the control of the Poor Law Board. They were saddled with enormous taxation, and were left with no power but to carry out the decrees of the Board. It was not a case of opposition to Roman Catholics alone. They objected to the coercion of any class of people, of whatever religion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would remind the Committee that the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) had stigmatized the objections to this Bill as hypocritical. He could assure the right hon. Member that he was lately in conversation with an eminent member of the
 1874
 MR. REARDEN  said, he thought it would be decidedly wrong to intrust power to the local vestries, which had proved—as in the case of the St. George's Vestry, of which he was a member—that it was a power capable of being abused in their hands. The powers conferred by the Bill ought to be in the hands of the Poor Law Board.
 COLONEL HOGG  said, this was not the first time that the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Rearden) had had the audacity to make a charge against St. George's Vestry, Hanover Square.
 MR. REARDEN  rose to Order, and called for the withdrawal of the word "audacity."
 COLONEL HOGG  said, he would use the word boldness instead.
 MR. REARDEN  said, that was equally offensive. He must call on the hon. Gentleman to apologize. ["Order !"]
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the hon. Member for Athlone had objected to a particular expression, which had been withdrawn.
 COLONEL HOGG  said, that, as far as his personal experience of the Vestry of St. George's, Hanover Square, enabled him to do so, he gave the most unqualified denial to the charges of proselytizing tendencies which had been made against that body. Any Roman Catholic child subject to their authority had ample opportunities of being visited by the minister of their own persuasion, and Roman Catholic adults were not only allowed to go out on Sundays, but also upon what the Roman Catholic Church considered to be holydays as well. He hoped that the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) would be accepted.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, experience had shown, and that in the very case referred to, that it was ludicrous to suppose children of such a tender age could decide authoritatively as to their own religion. Before they were allowed to decide upon so serious a question there ought to be some inquiry into their mental condition, and as to whether anything in the nature of inducements or other influences of an
 1875
 MR. POWELL  said, he would resist any such inquiry if the child's age was to be fixed at fourteen years. At the same time it would be for the Committee first to vote upon the age of fourteen, and after that to say whether or not they would have an inquiry
 SIR. HENRY WINSTON-BARRON  said, the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) had given no reason whatever for objecting to an impartial inquiry by the Poor Law Board.  Sic volo, sic jubeo
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the Poor Law Board was not a competent or impartial tribunal. This was a Bill brought forward by the Poor Law Board in opposition to the wishes of every Board of Guardians in the country. Its object was to prevent as far as legislation could do it, the children of the poor from being brought up in what, at any rate, was a loyal religion, and to leave them by accident as it were, to become members of a religion which, as far as the teaching of its priesthood was concerned, was a religion of disloyalty and sedition, opposed to the historical spirit, and to every instinct of this country.
 SIR HENRY WINSTON-BARRON : I call that an insult to my religion; and I call upon the hon. Member to apologize.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) has made use of some terms which are not very common in this House, and which are certainly calculated to give offence to a body of Members in this House.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he was always desirous of conforming to the opinion of the great majority of hon. Members, and although he felt that in doing so he was somewhat curtailing the liberty of speech to which private Members were entitled, he was willing to withdraw the statement, retaining, however, the opinion to which he had endeavoured to give expression. This Bill had been brought forward by the Poor Law
 1876
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he hoped that children would not be allowed to change their religion without being examined by the Poor Law Board.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the question of religion did not arise on the present clause, but on Clause 12. The present clause merely said that in the case of children who were, say, Baptists or Roman Catholics, the nearest minister of their faith should be allowed to go in and instruct them. If, as suggested by the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell), a child, on being visited by a minister of religion, objected to being instructed by that particular individual, that was not a religious objection, but a personal objection, and it did not seem necessary that a child should have more liberty in choosing any particular person to instruct him in his own creed than in the selection of his schoolmaster.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he must repeat that the clause providing for the Creed Register related not merely to children, but to all inmates of workhouses, and a minister of religion, coming in and finding a person seventy years of age registered as belonging to his creed, would have the power of inflicting his visits on the pauper. He quite agreed that a child of immature years should not have the power of saying that he would not have a particular minister and would have another; but he objected in the strongest possible manner to the Poor Law Board arbitrating in such a matter. He remembered the Poor Law Board being very unpopular in this country, and he should see it so again on account, among many other reasons, of the passing of the present Bill.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, be had hoped that they might have come to a compromise on this clause by means
 1877
 MR. M'LAREN  said, be thought the age of twelve quite sufficient. He knew many children of that age who would puzzle some hon. Members in that House on religious subjects. In Scotland a person of fourteen years of age was able to make a will, or appoint a manager of his property. The Marquess of Bute at that age chose a person to manage his vast estates.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he must remind the Committee that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) applied to children in workhouse schools, and the children in the minority had no chance against the majority, but were jeered at and laughed out of their religion. It appeared from the third Report of the Poor Law Commission that a Guardian in one of the largest parishes of the metropolis stated, in answer to questions put to him, that the Guardians there never recognized any children as Roman Catholics. He really must say it was perverting common sense to assert that poor children of a tender age in workhouses made choice of a religion through conviction. He had great difficulty in assenting to the compromise which had been suggested.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the noble Lord denied that children under fourteen years of age had any religion of their own. That, to a certain extent, was the doctrine of the law of England.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  begged the hon. Member's pardon. His observation on the subject had reference to children in the disadvantageous position of the children in our workhouses.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he (Mr. Newdegate) was referring to children in that disadvantageous position. The law of this country had been that if a child became destitute it should be educated in the religion of the State. A similar law existed in certain Roman Catholic countries still. He had been told of the case of a child in a public institution who objected to be visited by a priest. The father of the child was a Roman Catholic, and he was referred to, and he did not wish that the priest should continue his visits. The rev. gentleman insisted on doing so, but a
 1878
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he thought there was a concurrence of opinion that the clause in its present form should not stand part of the Bill. The question was as to the way in which it should be amended. He hoped the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell) would not substitute sixteen for fourteen years of age in the proposed Amendment.
 MR. SYNAN  said, that the opinions with which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) was imbued, were very erroneous one. When listening to the hon. Member he was reminded of a story he had heard of an Irish banister. The learned gentleman had told an attorney that he must succeed in a certain action. The attorney was defeated, and meeting the barrister some time after, said to him, "I acted on your opinion and was cast." "Where did I give you that opinion?" said the barrister. "In Capel Street," was the reply. "Oh, then," rejoined the barrister, "never believe a Capel Street opinion again." He would recommend the hon. Member for North Warwickshire to remember the moral of that story. As to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell), he contended that children of fourteen years old in workhouses were not competent to select their own creed.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, that the gentlemen who called for an alteration in the existing laws were in reality the persons who would give rise to a selection of creeds on the part of children in workhouses.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he was disposed to vote in favour of the retention of the word "twelve." But he must observe that the Amendment to the clause was founded upon a mistake. It was supposed that the clause provided that a minister belonging to the creed of a child who was on the register of the workhouse as connected with that creed might insist upon instructing that child. Now, the clause merely provided that such minister "may, in accordance with the regulations of the Poor Law Board," visit and instruct such persons.
 MR. SYNAN  proposed that the clause should be further amended by the addition to it of the words ''and who shall be considered by the Poor Law Board to be competent to exercise a judgment on the subject," a proposal which was supported by Mr. Villiers.
 MR. POWELL  said, he objected to the addition because the Amendment would then be applicable to the inmates of workhouses, however old they might be.
 MR. M'LAREN  said", that if the Poor Law Board were to send down an inspector to make inquiry into each individual case and report thereupon, they might as well take away all rule and control from the local authorities.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had had considerable experience in this matter, having for about eight years been a member of the Board of Supervision in Scotland. He had always stood up for the right of children to be educated in the religion of their parents, but nevertheless he should deprecate any addition to this clause, as it would, in his opinion, be for the interest of all parties that a fixed rule should be established.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he should not press the Amendment of which he had given Notice, as he had no objection to the clause as it now stood.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he thought the parent was not always competent to form an opinion, and might, indeed, be an imbecile.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that in order to make the clause conformable with Clause 10, he would beg to move the omission from the end of the clause of the words "and who shall be considered by the Poor Law Board to be competent to exercise a Judgment upon the Subject." The Board would judge by it sofficers, many of whom were Roman Catholics.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  proposed the insertion in line 35, after the word "do," of the words "and the provisions contained in the Poor Law Board Act, 1847, relative to the salaries of the persons therein mentioned shall apply to the salaries of the persons to be appointed as auditors by the Poor Law Board." Several Committees had reported in favour of that proposal.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the election of the auditors was now in the hands of the Guardians, and it was the accounts of the Guardians which had to be audited. It was obvious that the present state of things in that respect was anomalous, and exactly the same as if a Board of Directors were to appoint the auditors of their own expenditure.
 MR. NEATE  said, he thought that the object should be to exclude central patronage while increasing central control. He would suggest that the Guardians should nominate three persons for the office of auditor, and that the Poor Law Board should appoint one of those three.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he would remind the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Candlish), who had given notice to move to leave out from line 30 to line 37 inclusive, that when the Guardians failed to appoint their own officers, the Poor Law Board, though they had no wish for the power, could make the appointments. The Committee of 1864, after going most fully into this matter, reported that the substitution of district auditors for auditors elected by the Guardians had led to greater uniformity of procedure, more vigilance, and more careful expenditure, and recommended that the auditors should be reduced in number and should devote their whole time to the public service. Previous Committees had taken the same view, and he hoped, therefore, that the clause would be agreed to.
 MR. HURST  said, he was quite satisfied with the explanation of the hon. Baronet(Sir Michael Hicks-Beach), and hoped there would be no opposition to the clause.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he must contend that the ratepayers, who were those chiefly interested in checking lavish expenditure, should have the appointment of auditors.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, this clause proposed to repeal certain Acts which had been passed for the purpose of prohibiting parochial officers from purchasing goods for the relief of the poor from themselves. The overseers of the poor had to a certain extent the dispensation of relief, and therefore they should not have the power of purchasing from themselves the goods they had to dispense. He proposed to omit from the clause the words "and overseers of the poor."
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, the proposed Amendment was unnecessary, because though the overseers had certain duties to discharge towards the poor they had nothing whatever to do with the control of the expenditure.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that there were in the workhouses 1,000 Roman Catholic children who were brought up as Protestants because there was no one to demand that they should be brought up in their own creed.
 SIR JOSEPH M'KENNA  asked whether a child which had had the misfortune to lose its parents should be handed over to the tender mercies of those who wished to kidnap children for their own creed?
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that the Amendment would really reverse the policy which had been adopted for the last thirty years in this country. The law was that where a child's parent was notoriously of a certain religion the child should be brought up in that religion. That was Clause 19 in the Poor Law Amendment Act; but, in some cases, the operation of the law had been defeated by preventing the supply of the proper evidence of the parents' religion. In effect the result of the Amendment would be to bring up as Protestants the children of Catholics. [Mr. KINNAIRD: Only where the child has been deserted, and the religion of the parent is not known.] But it was much easier to ascertain the religion of the parents of deserted children than any others. The witness by whom this was stated came from Birmingham, and was now employed in Marylebone. It appeared from his evidence that in the latter place deserted and orphan children were, brought up in the religion of the parents, and that since this system was adopted better order had been kept in the House, there had been better conduct among the paupers, and the townspeople were satisfied. The Amendment proposed a refinement in intolerance which would carry us back thirty years, and it involved a principle which was quite new, that of punishing parents by choosing a religion for their children, and which might be applied to offences other than desertion.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) had come round to the view he (Mr. T. Chambers) had advanced at first, that the Bill was not
 1883
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, the Amendment proposed a different law for the poor from that applied to the rich. A child possessed of property would be brought under the cognizance of the Court of Chancery, which would ascertain the religion of the parents and take care that the child was brought up in it, but because children were helpless and friendless they were to he treated in a different manner. What he asked was that all children, proved to belong to Catholic parents, whether they had been deserted or were orphans should be brought up in their parents' religion.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that the Amendment only affected "deserted"—not orphan—children, so that the appeal of the noble Lord was not in point. There was no illiberality in the State taking care of these deserted children—children picked out of the gutter—and in the State providing them with education. What was the meaning of "a deserted child?" It was a child not claimed by any one, and for whom there was no one willing to pay. All that was wanted was that it should not be assumed that such deserted children were Roman Catholics.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, it was proposed in the case of deserted children—on the ground that they had no person standing in a recognized relation to them, and that they were to be paid for by the State—that they should, therefore, be brought up in the religion of the State. But that was not the principle of the existing Poor Laws, which were conceived on the principle that children should be brought up in what was supposed to be their own religion—namely, that of their parents, provided it could be ascertained. Now, all that the clause would do in the case of deserted as well as in that of orphan children would be to enable the Poor Law Board not to act on the assumption that the children were of any particular faith, but to accept the evidence which a Creed Register might afford of such faith, and when that was ascertained the religion of the father was to rule the religion of the child.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the Creed Register would not prove the religion of the parents, but only the opinion on the subject of the person who made the entry. The result would be that these deserted children would be put up to auction, and they all knew who would claim them. He maintained that when the parents were not
 1884
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would support the Amendment. This question of the removal of children would give rise to a great deal of squabbling.
 MR. SYNAN  said, that in the majority of cases there would be no difficulty in ascertaining the religion of the parents of a deserted child.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he thought hon. Gentlemen were losing sight of the meaning of the clause. The gist of the alteration proposed was that the Poor Law Board, in the absence of a requisition from the parents or god-parents, might exercise the powers vested in them by the Poor Law Act, and, upon reasonable evidence of the religion of the parents, order deserted children to be sent to a denominational registered school where they would be brought up in their parents' religion.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he wanted to know what was the nature of the inquiry to be conducted by the Poor Law Board before taking such a step, and whether the evidence taken by the officials who made the inquiry was to be laid before the Guardians and the public? The opinion throughout the country would be that the religion to which the child would be assigned would depend very much upon the person to whom the inquiry would be committed. The public had very little faith in Boards for such purposes as these.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the whole debate had shown that all the words of the clause after "these Acts" ought to be struck out, and therefore he should move that they should be struck out. They were asked to give the Poor Law Board the perfectly novel power of sending deserted children out of the workhouse to a denominational school. Upon what evidence was the Poor Law Board to judge of the creed to which the child should be consigned? The fact was that the Guardians had no right to part with the children in favour of any denomination whatever.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he would withdraw his Amendment in favour of that of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate).
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, this was an objection against the existence of a Creed Register. There was no difficulty in the matter. It was the duty of the parochial officer to ascertain what was the religion of the parents.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, the difficulty he felt was as to how they were to ascertain the religion of the parents when the deserted child was too young to give any information.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he considered the clause unnecessary, as the present system worked perfectly well. Since the passing of the Poor Law Act a sum of £7,000,000 had been borrowed on a uniform plan, which it would not be well to interfere with.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, in the absence of Mr. T. Potter, he would move a clause (Provision for poor deaf and dumb or blind children), empowering Guardians to send deaf and dumb children to uncertified institutions.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that no such provision as that proposed by: the hon. Member was called for except by one or two of the metropolitan unions. If it should be generally demanded there would be ample opportunity for considering it hereafter.
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he had given Notice of a clause of similar effect, though not going so far as that proposed
 1886
 MR. H. E. SURTEES  said, that the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill's) argument applied to a clause not before the Committee.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he must oppose the clause. Reporters were present at the meetings of all Boards of Guardians of importance, and that ought to be sufficient for the ratepayers.
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that the British factory was only a voluntary association of British merchants, nearly all of whom were, he believed, members of the Russia Company to which he had alluded on a former occasion. As such a voluntary association it was undoubtedly recognized.
 1825
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What obstacles now impede the establishment of Diplomatic Relations between this Country and the Republic of Mexico?
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, the relations at present existing between England and Mexico are not of a satisfactory character. We have no diplomatic intercourse with that Republic, and, consequently, we have no direct means of affording that protection which we should wish to give to British subjects resident in Mexico. But I wish to point out—though I think I stated it before in this House—that though this state of things is one which Her Majesty's Government regret, it is not directly or indirectly their doing. The fact is that the present Government of Mexico, acting, as I venture to think, not very wisely, but acting, no doubt, within their right, chose to consider the recognition by England of the Mexican Empire an act of hostility against the Mexican Republic, which, they contend, was the only legitimate Government ever in existence in that country, though, of course, during the time when the Empire of Mexico was  de facto
 MR. BUXTON : Before the right hon. Gentleman answers this Question, I wish to say that I have been informed that when the flying column arrived at Sandhurst there was no provision whatever to give them shelter from the intense heat of the sun. A friend of mine was present, and he states that the troops were completely exhausted when they marched on to the ground at Sandhurst, and that there was no shelter or shade of any sort provided for them; there were no tents, nor were they taken into a neighbouring wood where shade might have been obtained.
 MR. BUXTON : I desire to say a word or two, Sir, in support of the Motion made by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), not only on account of the strong personal regard which I entertained for Lord Brougham, but because I certainly believe that he was one of the most remarkable men that this country has produced. While enjoying intellectual powers of a most extraordinary character, few men were more tenderly alive to the feelings of humanity or more uncompromising in their attempts to put down oppression and its causes. He was, if I remember rightly, I almost the only one who, having fought side by side with Wilberforce with the greatest energy for the abolition of our slave trade with Africa, was able to take a prominent part in the efforts made for the abolition of slavery throughout the whole of the British dominions; and to the latest day of his life he employed his great powers for the abolition of slavery throughout the world. No doubt he had great faults, but he was cast in a gigantic mould, and all his characteristics, whether good or bad, were striking in the extreme.
 1833
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, we must all feel indebted to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) for having given Members of the House an opportunity of expressing the deep sympathy and admiration with which the House regards the career of Lord Brougham. Nothing could have been more becoming and appropriate than the observations of my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck). I had the high honour of enjoying the friendship of Lord Brougham during many of the later years of his life, and I very cordially echo what has been said, better than I could say it, both of his public and his personal qualities. It may, perhaps, not readily have been inferred by those who knew Lord Brougham chiefly from the part he took in the most stormy debates of his times, that there was in him,
 1835 1836 1837
 MR. GRANT DUFF : Sir, I should have been sorry if this conversation had come to an end, without my having had an opportunity of expressing my very great regret that one of those untoward accidents, to which the House is subject, should have prevented the hon. and gallant General, the Member for Frome (Sir Henry Rawlinson) bringing before us a subject, which will, I fear, however favourably matters may turn out, exert a sinister influence on many future Indian budgets. I allude, of course, to the recent advance of Russia on Central Asia. I am as far as possible from being an alarmist on this question. Some who have given much attention to it say that I am too little of an alarmist; but I do think that even in this crowded Session this matter should not have been passed by. There is a difference between panic and wise foresight. A discussion, inaugurated as it would have been by the hon. and gallant General, with whose views some of us do and some of us do not agree, but whose acquaintance with a certain portion of the subject we all admit to be great and almost unique, would have enlightened opinion in Europe, strengthened the hands of the Viceroy in what I consider his wise policy, and above all calmed opinion in India. Far be it from us to wish to see a revival of the anti-Russian feelings of thirty years ago; but let us not deceive ourselves. This is a grave matter. It is for the interest of all of us, and above all for the interest of the Government for the time being that all the best information and all the best thought about Russia, which exists in Western Europe, should be called out for our guidance, and it is known to everyone that the most sovereign means of calling out all the best knowledge and all the best thought existing in Western Europe on any political subject is a discussion in the British House of Commons.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the right hon. Baronet had brought forward the Indian Budget in a spirit of great fairness. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing) that great progress had been made in the trade of India, seeing
 1862 physique and morale 1863 1864
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that it was only because he believed that British rule, as had been proved to demonstration by the speech of the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing) had done good to India, that he rejoiced that we were placed there. He rejoiced also that there was an increasing number of Natives coming to this country,
 1866 1867
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any decision has been arrived at as to granting a Frontier Service Medal to the Punjab Irregular Forces and Regular Troops, European and Native, engaged in important expeditions for the defence of the North West Frontier against the Hill tribes of Afghanistan since the annexation of the Punjab to British India in 1849?
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he would point out that, as a new charge would be imposed on the Consolidated Fund, the matter could not be taken into consideration except under a Resolution of the House.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied that official information had been received of an outbreak of smallpox in sheep in Schleswig-Holstein, whence we were re-
 1829
 MR. DISRAELI : I quite agree with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield; (Mr. Roebuck) that it is desirable there should be some public recognition of the career and character of Lord Brougham, such as is indicated by the Question he has placed before the House, one which, through the influence of art, shall produce a lasting impression upon the public mind, and keep within its continual recollection the memory of the great deeds of a man who was, no doubt, one of the most considerable persons this country has ever produced. The hon. and learned Gentleman has, with the terseness of which he is a master, but with complete propriety, placed before the House a sketch of the career of Lord Brougham, and made it unnecessary for me to dilate upon it. It may be truly said of Lord Brougham that none more completely represented his age, and no one more contributed to the progress of the times in which he lived. He had two qualities, almost in excess, which are rarely combined in the same person; one was energy, and the other versatility. The influence which creative power gave him, combined with strength of character, alone sustained him in a career which for its duration, as well as for its dazzling feats, has rarely been equalled in this Empire. But, Sir, when I have to consider on the part of the Government how and by what means we can do honour to Lord Brougham's memory in such a manner as to satisfy the wishes of the country—whether by raising some monument or some statue to him—I am painfully impressed with the failure of most efforts of a similar nature that have been made to perpetuate the memory of great men. Her Majesty's Government are extremely anxious if possible to avoid adding to those unsatisfactory demonstrations of which we have already had too many instances. But this subject has not really been neglected by the Government, for at the time the hon. and learned Gentleman placed his Motion on the Paper—now some months ago—I mentioned the subject to my Colleagues and there was a unanimous feeling in favour of setting up some memorial of the kind referred to if it could be done in a satisfactory manner. I would at this moment also remind the House that another great man has this year left us, whose
 1834
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the Government would accede to the proposal, on the ground that it was expedient to deal with such a claim in a wide and generous, and not in a niggardly, spirit. The clause was drawn by the late Lord Cranworth. He thought there was a fair moral claim; and that the Bishop of Kingston would be hardly dealt with if the House did not view the matter in a liberal spirit.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that no new charge on the Consolidated Fund would be created by the adoption of the proposition.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that a Memorial had been received from Jamaica objecting to the reduction proposed by the Government in the general religious endowments. No Correspondence had, however, been received. When Correspondence was received there would be no objection to place both it and the Memorial on the table of the House.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in reply, that Memorials had been received from certain persons against the appointment of Mr. Huggins, but, as he had informed the hon. Member on a previous occasion, the allegations in those Memorials had been inquired into, and they had been ascertained to be unfounded.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, no fresh complaints have been received upon the subject.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the Act to which the hon. Member referred had not yet been received in this country, although it was at the same time known that such an Act had been passed for the purpose of
 1820
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Table of Fees to be taken on Consecrations and Ordinations under the Provisions of the Act 31  Vict.
 MR. NEATE  said, he thought there was much to be said in favour of the proposition of the right hon. and learned Recorder.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the Bishop of Kingston had at present a life-interest in the life of the Bishop of Jamaica, and it was now proposed to give him a life-interest in two lives. The difference was just a grant from the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought the chum rested neither on a technical nor a moral ground, and that the precedent which his right hon. Friend's Amendment would establish might be productive of great inconvenience hereafter. The proposal was really one for appointing a new Bishop of Jamaica after the next avoidance of the see.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the 92d Regiment has reported favourably of Colonel Carter's Knapsack, and preferred it, after a careful trial, to the plan of equipment invented and put forward by a Committee sitting at the War Office; whether the Officer commanding the Brigade of Guards has applied to the Horse Guards, consequent upon a limited trial, to have a further and more extended trial of Colonel Carter's equipment, and the nature of the reply given to his application; and, whether the Secretary of State for War will direct that Colonel Carter's equipment, now excluded from trial, be fairly tried, in competition or otherwise, before any new equipment is finally decided upon for the Army?
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it be true that £5,000, the moiety of an increase of £10,000, sanctioned by the Treasury to be applied to the Retirement of Officers of Artillery, is to be suspended until a scheme for retirement on some other basis has been substituted, while the total sum calculated to he the proportion for the Royal Engineers has been properly applied to the promotion of that corps?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he was not aware that any changes were contemplated, unless changes might be contemplated by the Judicial Commission now sitting. No steps in the matter would be taken by the Government without considering the Report of that Commission, which was now pursuing its inquiries.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I have received some information on the subject, from which it appears that Mr. Castle had taken proceedings against a man for using threatening and abusive language. The summons was dismissed, and Mr. Castle was ordered to pay the costs, or to be imprisoned with hard labour. I may mention that the Act, commonly known as Jervis's Act, gives the magistrate discretionary power to impose imprisonment with or without hard labour. Mr. Castle, it further appears, has been several times imprisoned for non-payment of costs, or things of that sort. On this occasion, however, somebody, to prevent his going to prison, came forward and paid the costs for him, and therefore he was not imprisoned at all, nor was he put to the slightest inconvenience, though he protested loudly against the interference of his friends, and professed himself very desirous of undergoing imprisonment.
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH  replied that no such Table of Fees had as yet been presented to the Lords of the Treasury. Some months ago, when the hon. Gentleman made a similar inquiry, he had informed the hon. Gentleman, on the authority of the Archbishop of Canterbury, that such a Table was in preparation. He had, however, received no further information, and, although he had sent a communication to the Archbishop, he did not anticipate an immediate answer on account of the absence from town and the indisposition of the most rev. Prelate.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, as this was a subject which would probably be interesting to other counties besides Hampshire, he would stale that, although the Criminal Law Amendment Act of last year had for the first time authorized the expenses of witnesses for the defence being defrayed by the Treasury, objection was taken in the House to the probable cost of such payments; and his right hon. Friend who had charge of the Bill undertook that no money should be paid on that account until a Vote for the purpose was passed by the House of Commons. A Vote for that purpose was accordingly inserted in the Estimates for the year, and the House did not pass that Vote until the first week in June. The account sent in by the Treasurer of Hampshire was presented before that time, and in accordance with what had occurred with regard to other counties, the charge made for witnesses for the defence was ordered to stand over, and might therefore technically be said to have been disallowed. There never was, however, any intention to disallow the charge further than until the House of Commons should pass a Vote approving the policy of the legislation of last year.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, with reference to a Letter addressed by him to the Lord Lieutenant of the County of Surrey, dated the 21st instant, and relating
 1824
 MR. WHALLEY  attempted to offer some explanation, but was compelled to resume his seat amidst loud cries of "Order."
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to know whether any fresh complaints have not been received since he had put his former Question upon the subject?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether Petitions have not recently been received from the inhabitants of Sierra Leone against the appointment of Sir. Horatio James Huggins as Assistant Judge of the Supreme Court of that Colony; and, if so, what course Her Majesty's Government intend to pursue relative to the facts set forth in the said Petitions; and, whether and what Correspondence has arisen on the subject-matter of these Petitions between the authorities and influential persons resident in that Colony and the Colonial Office?
 MR. CLAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the British Factory at St. Petersburg is a body officially recognized by the British Ambassador?
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been directed to the slow and unsatisfactory promotion which takes place from the rank of Assistant Surgeon in the Army Medical Department; and, whether he is of opinion that measures should be taken to assimilate the system of promotion in that branch of the Service to that which exists in the Indian Medical Service, where it is obtained after a period of twelve years?
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Spanish Authorities have arrived at any decision in the case of the "Tornado"; whether the owners of that ship have had the benefit of "a proper judicial investigation" and an appeal, as stipulated for in his Lordship's Despatches to Sir John Crampton of 25th and 30th of May, 1867; and, whether there would be any objection to produce all the Correspondence on this subject not yet laid before Parliament?
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Clergy Act of British Guiana has been forwarded to this Country, for the purpose of receiving Her Majesty's Assent; and, if so, whether he will lay the same before Parliament?
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether there has been any Correspondence between the Colonial Office and the Governor of Jamaica relative to the renewal of the Clergy Act, which expires next year; and, if so, whether he has any objection to lay the same before Parliament?
 MR. SPEAKER : The whole question seems to be whether this is a new charge on the Consolidated Fund, or a reservation from the £20,000 supposed to be given up. The Bill proposes to relieve the Consolidated Fund from the payment of £20,000, while if the Amendment be passed it would only be relieved of £18,000. I think it is a matter which is open to the decision of the House.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the Vice-President of the Committee of Council, Whether it is true that a severe attack of Smallpox has broken out among the sheep in Schleswig-Holstein; and if so, whether it is proposed to take steps to prevent the importation of sheep from that country?
 MR. ROEBUCK , who had given Notice to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, in consideration of the great public services of Lord Brougham, it is the intention of the Government to propose the erection of a monument to his memory, in Westminster Abbey? said: I feel, Sir, so great an interest in the Question that I am about to put to the Government, that I do not wish it to be put with the usual dry formality, and I will therefore conclude with a Motion, though I promise the House not to avail myself of the privilege which I shall thus obtain by indulging in any very large number of words. I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, in his opinion, there ought not to be erected a monument to the memory of the late Lord Brougham, expressive of the admiration in which that great man was regarded by the country? I make this Motion for two purposes—one because, from my very intimate relations with that noble Lord, I have felt the greatest regard and veneration for his memory, and I therefore trust that the House will permit me to express my own feelings on the matter, and the other because it will give the right hon. Gentleman in his reply—supporting as I hope he will the proposal that I make—an opportunity of expressing in a few apt and eloquent sentences, such as he always has at his command, his own feelings with regard to that noble Lord. I have waited long—I cannot say that I have waited patiently—in the hops that some one more
 1830 1831
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is now in possession of any information respecting the circumstances under which Mr. Castle, of Melton Mowbray, was sentenced to imprisonment and hard labour for nonpayment of costs?
 MR. OSBORNE : I wish, Sir, to put a Question to the Secretary of State for War respecting a statement which appears in the evening papers. It is stated that on Wednesday last, during the great heat of that tropical day, a flying column was sent out from Aldershot, that nine of the men forming part of it experienced sunstrokes, and that eighty-seven of the men had to be sent to hospital. I want to know, Whether there is any truth in that report, and if there is, whether the right hon. Gentleman has taken any steps—which he usually does in the case of flagrant outrages of this sort—to prevent troops being sent out in flying columns in the heat of the day?
 MR. OSBORNE : No man, Sir, could, in my opinion, have given expression to remarks which would have been more acceptable to the late Lord Brougham had he now been alive than those of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck); while none, perhaps, would have been more unacceptable to him than those which have fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer). I rise merely for the purpose of pointing out, though I should
 1832
 MR. LOWE  said, it appeared that a coadjutor Bishop had been appointed to assist the Bishop. The office of the coadjutor was correlative with that of the Bishop, and could not extend beyond it. When the present Bishop died the office of his coadjutor could not continue to exist. The House were asked to give the coadjutor, not in virtue of an office which he held now, but in virtue of an office which he would hold after the death of the Bishop of Jamaica, a sum of £1,600 out of the Consolidated Fund. He held with his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) that this could not now be done.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, that with the view of protecting a vested interest which, in his opinion, ought to be respected by the Legislature, he would beg to move to leave out—
 "As such coadjutor, continue to act in the same manner as at present as Archdeacon of Middlesex," and insert "and exercises episcopal functions therein, continue to receive out of the Consolidated Fund the annual payment of two thousand pounds, which has hitherto been made to him in part by the Bishop of Jamaica out of
 1887
 MR. LAING  said, he saw very little to except to in the clear and judicious statement of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for India. No one could doubt the judiciousness of the conclusion come to by Mr. Massey and the Indian Government, and which had been affirmed by the authorities in this country, that there should be no alteration in the taxation for the current year. Whatever objection there might have been to the policy of the Licence Tax when it was first imposed, it would, in his opinion, have been impolitic, without a much larger surplus, to repeal taxes simply because we had had an exceptionally good opium year. He also generally concurred with the right hon. Baronets's observations as to the danger of allowing items of expenditure on public works to be improperly carried from revenue to capital under the head of extraordinary expenditure. Such a practice resembled the condemned system of keeping railway capital accounts open. But he wished to say a few words on Indian finance generally, because it seemed to him that there still remained a disposition in the Home Indian Government to take a rather too gloomy view of the financial position of India, and that might lead to bad results. About five years ago very important
 1853 1854 1855 1856 1857 1858 s. s. s. s. 1859 1860 1861
 MR. BEACH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why the expenses of witnesses that attended in Court for the defence at the Hampshire Quarter Sessions, which were authorized to be repaid to the County Treasurer by "The Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1867," have been disallowed by the Treasury?
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that it was a little disheartening to a Minister, who took an interest in the Government of India, to address empty Benches on this subject. [Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE: Hear !] The dozen Members present constituted a sorry display of the interest felt in the welfare of 150,000,000 of human souls. He thought that the Indian Government should advertise for tenders whenever they wanted freight or stores. The chain cables and anchors sent out to India should be the subject of public competition. He noticed that estimates had been given at £37 5 s. s.
 MR. POWELL  said, that as the subject appeared to be taking wider range, he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : I cannot help, Sir, expressing my opinion that in all countries the circumstances attending the funeral of the late Lord Brougham were regarded with regret, and something like humiliation. He who was the greatest man of his time as an orator, and in the extent of his knowledge and Parliamentary services, now lies buried in a foreign land, among strangers, while to men far inferior to Lord Brougham the honour of a monument in Westminster Abbey has been accorded. There is a great delicacy, I know, in interfering with the expressed wishes of one who is dead, and I am told, with what truth I do not know, that Lord Brougham expressed a wish to be buried at Cannes. That wish, if it were expressed, arose probably from feelings of humility on the part of that distinguished man, and though we are accustomed always to respect the wishes of the dead, this is, I think, one of those occasions on which the performance of those wishes might be dispensed with. I think the feelings of the nation would be gratified by the remains of Henry Brougham being transferred to this country. His wishes have been complied with, for he has been buried at Cannes; but I trust, for the honour of this country, his remains may now be translated to Westminster Abbey.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I am extremely glad to have this opportunity of stating that there is not the least disposition on the part of the authorities either at the Horse Guards or the War Office to deprive the army of whatever knapsack may turn out to be the best and the most convenient. It is quite true that the 92d Regiment has reported favourably of the trials they have made of Colonel Carter's knapsack, and it is intended that the trial shall be extended to the other Highland regiments, as it appears that Colonel Carter's knapsack is better adapted for the uniform and equipments of the Highland regiments than for the army generally. It is also true that the officer commanding the Brigade of Guards has applied to the Horse Guards to have a further and more extended trial of Colonel Carter's knapsack. This, however, was before a trial had been made of the knapsack invented by a Committee appointed for the purpose. The latter, as far as it has been tried, has given great satisfaction. There is no objection whatever to a further trial of Colonel Carter's knapsack being made, if it be thought desirable, as the sole wish of the authorities is to obtain the best and most convenient knapsack for the army.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I have had no information on the subject to which the hon. Gentleman refers. The House, therefore, will not expect me to answer the Question now. If the hon. Member will repeat it to-morrow, I shall by that time be adequately informed of the circumstances, and will give him an answer.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had no objection to do so, but thought it desirable that the Report of Captain Cockerill, which was favourable to the system, should also be laid upon the table.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that the question was not yet decided, and up to the present time the Treasury had taken no part in the discussion. The Admiralty had offered to the War Office a spot in Deptford Dockyard; it, however, was not deemed so suitable for the purpose as the spot that had been originally applied for. It was now proposed that a joint Committee of the Admiralty, War Office, and Treasury would consider the matter, and he had no doubt that in this way a satisfactory arrangement would be arrived
 1827
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he had received the Report referred to by the hon. Member, and had given it careful consideration. The Principal Veterinary Surgeon of the Army had attended at the establishment of M. Charlier in Paris, and had watched the manner in which the new mode of shoeing horses was conducted, but his opinion was unfavourable to the adoption of the system in this country. He should not, however, regard himself as being bound by that opinion, as in consequence of the success which was said to have attended the adoption of the system in Paris, it might be desirable before coming to a conclusion upon the subject to make some trial of it in England.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, it would be in the recollection of the hon. and gallant Gentleman that a short time since the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) had put a similar Question to him. As there appeared to have been some misunderstanding with respect to his Answer on that occasion, he had entered into correspondence with the hon. Member respecting it. His answer now was that he did not wish to fetter himself with any distinct engagement upon this subject at present, but desired rather to reserve to himself the power of acting in accordance with what the fair requirements of promotion in the Royal Artillery might demand, and with reference to the plan which he hoped the House would adopt.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, he could not help taking exception, to the first portion of the hon. Member's Question. The hon. Gentleman could, he imagined, have scarcely been aware of the fact that last year no less than sixty-five Assistant Surgeons were promoted, while in no year during the ten preceding years had the average of promotions exceeded forty. Instead, therefore, of the promotion being "slow and unsatisfactory," it had never been more rapid or more satisfactory than it was at the present time. With reference to the latter portion of the hon. Member's Question, he might remind the hon. Gentleman that the whole of this subject was carefully considered by a Select Committee as lately as 1866, and under the circumstances he did not see that any measures such as those suggested by the hon. Gentleman were required.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, in answering this Question, I cannot help saying that it is much to be regretted that the hon. Member in the shape of a Question has made what is, in effect, an  ex parte ex parte
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that it was not in his power to give the hon. and gallant Gentleman a decided Answer to his Question. At present no decision upon the subject had been come to, and it would be impossible to come to such a decision until the Government had received the Report of the Committee which was now engaged in considering the late experiments at Shoeburyness. Before any decision was come to it would be desirable that further consideration should be given to the invention of Captain Moncreiff, which might have a very serious effect upon the question of the adoption of iron shields in fortifications.
 MR. ST. AUBYN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has yet received the Report which he expected from the Principal Veterinary Surgeon of the Army with reference to the mode of Shoeing Horses invented by M. Charlier, and extensively adopted in Paris; and, if so, what is the nature of that Report, and what are his intentions on the subject?
 MR. ST. AUBYN  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman has any objection to place the Report upon the Table of the House?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that the matter was not one in
 1823
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in reply, that he must repeat that he could not officially take the initiative, but he would communicate privately with the Governor General on the subject.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in reply, said, he took the criticisms of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk) in good part. It was very useful for India as well as for England, that a check should be placed upon expenditure by such criticisms; but he believed that the principle upon which the Government went on supplying stores of a naval character to India was to go to the Admiralty contractors and adopt the Admiralty scale of prices, feeling that on this point the Admiralty were better judges than the India Office could be. In the case of the chain cables and anchors alluded to by the hon. Member, he believed that there was a special reason why a patented article was necessary, for serious losses had arisen from the drifting of vessels in a cyclone, and it was thought advisable to have a certain description of anchor which would hold more firmly than the ordinary description. With regard to provisions, he knew nothing, but he remembered a gentleman coming to him and offering to send coals to Annesley Bay at a lower rate than that at which the Government were being supplied. At that time, however, the arrangement had already been made with the Peninsular and Oriental Company, and he believed that the offer made applied only to a very limited quantity of coals—one or two ship-loads, which would: have been insufficient for the purpose, He was sorry if he conveyed the impression that Mr. Massey had this year thrown the barrack charges upon loans. What
 1868 1869 1870
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in moving that the Order of the Day to go into Committee on this Bill be discharged, said, he had hoped up to a late period that the Bill might have been more fully discussed. He fully understood that it was to have been put down for Tuesday last, which would have given him an opportunity of carrying it through Committee; but by mistake another Bill was put down before it, and it did not conic on at all. He might have found a later day, but he had previously said that Tuesday was the last day he could bring it on; and the noble Lord the Member for Taunton (Lord William Hay) had left town on the understanding that the Order would be discharged. Apart from that, he doubted whether he should be justified in proceeding with the measure, seeing that several points of considerable importance remained to be discussed. He was not sorry, however, that he had brought forward the measure, as an opportunity had been afforded to the House of expressing a decided opinion upon two material points of the Bill with respect to
 1871 status
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Mr. Dodson, I think there is nothing in the statement with which I shall have to trouble the Committee to-day which calls for any very lengthened remarks from me. I must express my obligations to my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) for having allowed the House to proceed with the Business of the day without raising a preliminary discussion in accordance with the Notice which he placed on the Paper. As I just now remarked, I shall have very little to say; but at the outset I must take the opportunity of expressing my regret that this is the last financial statement on which any Minister of State will have to comment which has been drawn up by my right hon. Friend Mr. Massey. As the Committee is doubtless aware, Mr. Massey has left India and returned to this country, although the period during which he might have expected to hold the position of Finance Minister of India has not yet expired. I am anxious to express my great regret that India has been deprived of the services of Mr. Massey; although, looking at the matter from a purely English point of view, I am sure the Committee will rejoice with me at Mr. Massey having again come among us, and will concur with me in expressing a hope that we may see him once more a Member of the House of Commons. I am quite sure that whenever Mr. Massey takes his place among us again, India will feel the advantage of there being present in the House of Commons another statesman who is able to speak with personal information and personal knowledge of the state of that Empire. These intercommunications between England and India are, I feel satisfied, very advantageous to both countries; and I must express a hope that in future we may have the advantage of Mr. Massey's frequent advice upon Indian affairs. I am particularly sorry, however, that Mr. Massey's retirement should have occurred at this particular moment; because at the time he left India
 1838 1839 1840 "From the accounts we have received at the Custom House, it will be found that during the eleven months the increased duty has been in operation the exportation of grain has increased from 355,000 maunds to 645,000 maunds, so that it is clear that the increased duty on exportation has not caused any diminution in the quantity exported, but that the exportation has gone on and increased very largely." 1841 1842 1843 1844 1845 1846 1847 1848 1849 1850 1851 1852
 MR. BAZLEY  said, while thanking the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for India for the statement which he had laid before the House as to the Indian finances, he felt it was deeply to be deplored that the interests of 200,000,000 of men should come on for discussion only at the very eve of the prorogation of Parliament; and he trusted that in future the subject of India would be brought before the House at a time when it could be really discussed. Nothing would contribute more to the prosperity of India than attention not only to the rights of labour, but to proper investments in public works. A large amount of money had been expended that would be really unproductive; but he did not know that too much had been laid out upon productive works. They wanted in India supplies of water, not only for irrigation, but also for communication. The Punjaub furnished an example that
 1865 d. s.
 MR. ADAM  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers) he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Treasury have yet decided between the Admiralty and the War Office, as to the proposal to purchase land and erect storehouses for the latter Department at Woolwich, while accommodation for that purpose can be obtained at comparatively small cost in the naval property at Deptford?
 VISCOUNT MILTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether considerable changes are not contemplated in the Circuits of the Judges for the Midland and Northern Districts; and whether Her Majesty's Government, in the event of any change, will consider the necessity of holding assizes at some convenient place within the Southern Division of the West Riding of Yorkshire?
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If he will lay upon the Table any official acknowledgment of "the discernment and judicious course of action" whereby, as stated by the Master of the Rolls, five valuable volumes of original State Papers,  tempore
 SIR JOHN PAKIGTON  said, he had received no information upon the subject of the hon. Member's Question. He would make inquiry into the matter, and he trusted that the statement would prove equally unfounded with that to which he had just referred.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that if the Commission was now a well-balanced one it would not be advisable to interfere with it by the addition of names, however distinguished, if the effect of so doing would be to destroy the balance of opinion. He should vote with the Secretary of State for India.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  expressed regret that his hon. and learned Friend, in accordance with the Notice which had been given, had not brought forward this subject at an earlier period of the Session, when it might have received that careful consideration which its importance demanded. The first portion of the clause related to the issuing of orders prescribing the time and conditions of the admission of casual poor into the workhouse; and the second enacted that vagrants should be detained in the workhouse a certain specified time after their admission. He doubted the wisdom of the latter provision because it would naturally occur that vagrants would avoid the workhouse, seeing they were liable to be detained. The visiting of the casual poor by one or more Guardians was a thing which he considered would be impossible to carry out. So much for the clause. Then came the question as to what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with reference to the order proposed to be issued? In reply, he had to say that the Poor Law Board were fully conscious of the need of uniformity in dealing with this matter. It was obvious that no system which endeavoured to separate the really deserving poor from the vagrants would be successful unless uniformity were had recourse to. Vagrancy had increased very considerably all over the country within the last two years, owing, doubtless, to the financial crisis and the consequent absence of employment. But in the metropolis, where a novel system of dealing with vagrants had been adopted, it was found that the proportion of vagrants in London in January, 1868, had only increased by 11½ per cent over the number in January, 1866, whereas throughout the rest of the country the increase of vagrants was no less than 50 per cent. That clearly proved that the practice in London was better than the practice in the rest of the country, and accordingly the Poor Law
 1910 1911
 MR. HENLEY  considered the subject dealt with by the clause before the House one of the gravest importance. He was very glad that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) was not going to press his Motion, because lie did not think it went to the root of the question. This matter of vagrancy would, in his opinion, never be ameliorated unless they treated casual poor as they treated all other classes of poor. The present system was really nothing more than a system of shifts and contrivances in order to throw the burden of maintaining vagrants off the shoulders of one parish upon another, Instead of meeting the evil, or attempting to face it, we strove to shift these vagrants from one place to another at the least possible expense and inconvenience. Thus we had some 50,000 people constantly circulating all round the country, and proving just as great a burden to the ratepayers as they would be if settled in one place, and had the means afforded them of living decently, instead of being, as they were, a curse to the whole body politic. Unless the question were looked upon in this large view, they would never be successful in abating this great pest to society. The present system reminded him of hunting
 1912
* MR. NEWDEGATE : Mr. Speaker, I hope the House will not think me unreasonable if I move at this stage of the Bill that Clause 3 be struck out. I shall also have to object to clauses from 6 to 12 inclusive, which are connected with Clause 3 in substance; but the clause to which I now object is the 3rd. By that clause the Poor Law Board is enabled, after giving notice to the Guardians, to appoint what officers it may think fit in any or each union of this country, and to direct what salaries shall be paid to these officers out of the rates, thereby acquiring a power totally to supersede every Board of Guardians in the country with reference to the appointment of officers and the payment of these officers out of the rates, which each Board of Guardians is bound to collect. This, Sir, is a very decided step towards the establishment of a centralized power; and I further find that it is understood in the House that this step is taken with the immediate view of appointing chaplains of other denominations than the Church of England, and among these Roman Catholic priests as chaplains. We have had some discussion upon this clause, and a division. This clause is mixed up with miscellaneous clauses in this Bill, but taken in connection with the clauses from 6 to 12, inclusive, it constitutes a separate portion of the Bill; this is understood and acknowledged. I wish, then, to show the House the sort of sense in which these provisions,; when taken together, are understood by the conductors of some of the Roman Catholic papers. Last Saturday there appeared an article on the subject of these clauses in  The Weekly Register 1913 "As the Bill has already passed the House of Lords, it will be law in a day or two, and the Marylebone, Pancras, and Chelsea Boards of Guardians will have lost their proselytizing power, and be compelled to carry the Poor Law into effect, in accordance with the enlightened and generous views of the Whig and Tory Governments, and of the two great parties in Parliament. We promise these low-bred, discomfited bigots that they may calculate upon a rigid surveillance of their future conduct, and upon the adoption of energetic measures to force them to do their duty, however sorely it may go against their grain," 1914 1915 1916
 MR. GILPIN  said, he hoped the time would soon come, and he should see it, when the question of Bishops' salaries would occupy as little time in that House as the payment of salaries to Dissenting ministers and of funds for the erection of chapels. With regard to the question now before the House, he should vote against the proposed alteration of the Lords' Amendment, for the reason that if it did not actually create a new charge upon the Consolidated Fund, it would create a charge for an additional life.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that by the patent under which his appointment was made the Bishop of Kingston was not merely appointed coadjutor to the Bishop of Jamaica. For his duties as coadjutor to the Bishop of Jamaica he received £1,200 a year out of the salary of the Bishop of Jamaica, in addition to the sum of £400, formerly £800, which he received as the Archdeacon of Middlesex. But he was also empowered on the death of the Bishop of Jamaica to perform the episcopal duties of that See until a successor had been appointed, consecrated, and had arrived in the diocese. The whole object of the Amendment now proposed was that the Bishop of Kingston should, in such an event, receive the same emoluments as were now given to the Archdeacon of Middlesex. He could see no objection to this proposal, and should therefore support it.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he did not agree with the right hon. Baronet (Sir Stafford Northcote). It must have been a strong sentiment which had influenced the other House in the matter. He could not believe that the two additional Members added to the Commission by the House of Lords would render the number of Commissioners excessive; and the two names which had been chosen were those of men of distinguished eminence. Probably among the whole of the graduates of Cambridge University there was not one more thoroughly qualified to deal with questions of the nature referred to the Commission than Canon Blakesley, or who by his attainments occupied a more conspicuous position in the world of science. It would, he believed, be a serious loss to the public service, and a great disadvantage to the Public Schools themselves, if they had not upon the Commission the benefit of Canon Blakesley's services. The reason why his name, which had been originally on the list, was struck off, was because St. Paul's School, of which he was an almoner, having been exempted from the operation of the Commission, it was supposed that his name, as representing the School, ought no longer to be retained. That, however, was a great mistake, for it was not in any such representative capacity that he had been originally chosen; and the House of Lords, by a great majority, restored the name, in conjunction with that of the hon. and learned Member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer). Having himself been first to a Public School and afterwards to Cambridge, he was in a position to speak confidently as to the reputation of Canon Blakesley, and the esteem in which his attainments were held. He (Mr. Bouverie) should divide the House upon the Motion.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he thought it only reasonable that in this particular instance the House of Lords should have a voice. They had treated with the greatest tenderness the recommendations of the House of Commons; they had not displaced a single one of the seven names which were inserted, but had added the names of two other extremely eminent men, which they felt would add weight to the Commission. A Commission of nine members would only differ from a Commission of seven in the greater knowledge, experience, and inquiring power which it would possess. It would be a most ungracious act to press for the omission of these names. Canon Blakesley, whom he had known for a great many years, was one of the most able and universally well-informed of all the tutors at Trinity College, Cambridge, and so scrupulous was he in his desire to act impartially as a Commissioner that during the two years in which he had now been designated as a Commissioner, he had purposely abstained from taking an active part in the discussion of educational subjects in public, which he would otherwise have been anxious to do. The hon. and learned Member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer) was also admirably qualified for being placed upon the Commission.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped the Government would adhere to the Bill, as far as regarded the number of the Special Commissioners, as it was sent up by them to the House of Lords. He thought that course would be more likely to give general satisfaction.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped the Secretary of the Treasury would support him in objecting to a proposal which, if adopted, would form a very bad precedent. The House was asked to make a new grant out of the Consolidated Fund by way of Amendment to an Amendment of the other House without any Resolution having been come to on the subject by the House in Committee. The clause, if amended as proposed, would give to the Bishop of Kingston £800 as his own salary and £1,200 from the Consolidated Fund as agent of the Bishop of Jamaica, so that the proposal actually suggested the appropriation of £1,200 out of the Consolidated Fund. The Act under which the payments were to be made was the 5 & 6  Vict 1919
 MR. MONK  regarded this as a most extraordinary attempt at legislation. His right hon. Friend who had moved the omission of the 1st clause seemed particularly anxious to undo all that had been done by the House of Lords. When the Bill was introduced into that House it consisted of a single clause, which was the second in the Bill as it now stood. The fact was that a compromise was come to. His right hon. Friend had not at all clearly explained the object of the 1st clause. Under the 9th section of the Act of 28 & 29  Vict d
 MR. NEATE  also thought the addition of the name of the hon. and learned Member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer) would be very desirable, as his legal authority would add great weight to the Commission, while his long experience as Attorney General would enable him to moderate between the extreme elements upon the Commission.
 MR. NEATE  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had received information that on a late occasion, when the Household Brigade was inspected at Wormwood Scrubs, six men had to be carried off the ground and eight others were sent to the hospital?
 MR. NEWDEGATE,  as an Oxford man, thought that the addition of the name of the hon. and learned Member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer) to the Commission would give increased confidence in the operation of that body to those who were connected with the University of Oxford and to many Members of this House. He therefore trusted that Her Majesty's Government would not persevere in their opposition to the Amendment. That opposition had the appearance of a party opposition, and there was no reason whatever for differing from the House of Lords in the matter. He (Mr. Newdegate) remembered the distinguished part which the hon. and learned Member for Richmond took in the discussions on the Oxford University Bill, and the great majority of Oxford men felt very grateful to him for the part he took upon that discussion. They found in the hon. and learned Member a person imbued with the spirit of industry, and in every way competent by attainments and ability to deal with the subject of the regulation of the University to which he belonged. As a man who had been to these Public Schools, and as connected with the Governing Body of one of them, he (Mr. Newdegate) most emphatically asserted that there would be greater confidence placed in the constitution of the Commission, and that its operations would carry greater weight if the name of the hon. and learned Member for Richmond was, according to the recommendation of the House of Lords, retained on the Commission. Although the Commission was, of course, nominated by the Government, it was to be a Parliamentary Commission with enormous powers conferred upon it by Parliament. Now, Parliament consisted of the House of Commons and of the House of Lords, and he believed that
 1907
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Russell Gurney) proposed to strike out part of the Lords' Amendment by which a pecuniary saving would be effected. The right hon. and learned Gentleman purposed to strike out that part of the Amendment which conveyed the intention of the other House, and to put in something entirely different in its nature, and not
 1920
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he will lay upon the Table the Correspondence relative to the recent restoration of certain State Papers to the British Government by the Library Committee of Philadelphia, in the United States of America, and whether any and what steps have been taken by Her Majesty's Government to mark their sense of the liberality of the Library Committee?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH,  in reply, said, he would be very happy to lay upon the table the Correspondence to which the lion. Member had alluded. A set, as far as published, of the Chronicles and Memorials of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the Calendars of State Papers, with fac-similes in photozincography of the Domesday Book and other national manuscripts, being in all 156 volumes, uniformly bound, was sent to the Philadelphia Library Committee by the Lords of the Treasury in grateful acknowledgment of the honourable and disinterested feelings which prompted their gift. The Directors have returned thanks to Her Majesty's Government for this munificent donation.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he had inquired into the subject, but could not find that there had been any Correspondence or communication between Mr. Hepworth Dixon and the Lords of the Treasury with reference to this matter. The remark of the hon. Member was correct that the Master of the Rolls in his; published Report had stated that it was entirely owing to the zealous activity of Mr. Hepworth Dixon that these valuable muniments had been restored to the British nation.
 MR. SPEAKER : A Question was put to me on this point last night, and I made answer to it that it appears to me, so far as the privileges of the House are concerned, the question turns upon whether there is any new charge upon the Consolidated Fund, and while the Bill proposes to relieve the Consolidated Fund of £20,000 this Amendment would relieve it of £ 18,000 only. The question of the merits of the Bill is a matter for the consideration of the House. The hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) has asked me whether in point of form this Amendment can be put? The question is whether it is relevant, and it appears to me that it is relevant to the Amendment of the Lords. I do not mean to say it is not a somewhat complicated question. I adhere to the substance of the opinion I gave last night that, as there is no new charge upon the Consolidated Fund, therefore I think it is a matter more to be decided by the House on its merits than by any opinion from the Chair.
 MR. AYTOUN  submitted that they had no power to do what was proposed by the Amendment. Power was given to grant a salary out of the Consolidated Fund to some person holding a particular office and provided for under the Act of Parliament; but was it competent to them to transfer the salary to some totally different office?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the effect of the Bill would he to divide the clergy of the Church of England into two classes—rectors and vicars. Under the Church Building Acts a great variety of designations had been bestowed upon different bodies of the clergy, who were styled incumbents, perpetual curates, and so forth. This was found to be a great inconvenience, which the present Bill was intended to remove. There was, however, already in operation a clause of an Act of Parliament under which if a portion of the tithes were given to an incumbent he could, with the consent of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, be declared a rector or a vicar as the case might be. The 2nd clause of the present measure fully provided for the division of the clergy into the two classes of rectors and vicars, and he should therefore move the omission of the 1st clause.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Amendments introduced in the House of Lords into this Bill were four in number. By the first of those Amendments the time allowed to the Governing Bodies of the Public Schools as constituted by the Bill for exercising their power of proposing new Governing Bodies was extended from the 1st of January, 1869, to the 1st of May in that year, provision being made for a month's further extension by an Order in Council. To
 1904
 MR. POWELL,  as a Member of the Select Committee, denied that Canon Blakesley's name had been omitted because St. Paul's School had first been removed from the list. There were other considerations, by no means disrespectful to Canon Blakesley, but arising from the desire to have a well-balanced Commission, which should fairly represent the different views entertained with reference to education, without giving a preponderance to any. He was quite certain that, as at present constituted, advanced views would have great power in the Commission.
 MR. POWELL  said, he thought the duty of the House clearly was to consider the Bill on its merits with regard to what had been said in "another place." He
 1918
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON,  in reply, said, he was unable to answer the Question of the hon. Member. The shooting for the prizes at Wimbledon was carried on under the management of the National Rifle Association, which was a private society, and not in any way connected with the War Office, and therefore he had no official knowledge of what had occurred on the occasion referred to by the hon. Member.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must request permission to answer a Question which had been put to him yesterday by the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Osborne), which he was then unable to answer from want of information on the subject. The hon. Member asked him whether it was true that during the march of a flying squadron from Aldershot nine
 1903
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  admitted that if it had been desirable to increase the number of the Special Commissioners the names added by the House of Lords would deserve very respectful consideration. But it was from the first thought desirable to limit the Commission to seven Members; and that proposition, after
 1905
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether Corporal Peake, who won the Prize at Wimbledon, but of which he is reported to have been deprived, will be otherwise rewarded; and in the event of a non-regulation wad having been used and contributed to his success, whether that wad will be introduced into the Service?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he hoped that' the time was not far distant when the; Continental system would be introduced; into this contry.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : The hon. Member who has brought forward this Motion having more than once referred to me, perhaps it may be convenient that I should say a few words on the part of the case in connection with which that reference has been made. My hon. Friend has correctly read, as far as my recollection goes, the passages of the judgment of the Vice Chancellor, which he was anxious to bring under the notice of the House; but my hon. Friend has asked for Papers which I think it would be altogether out of the ordinary course to print at the public expense. I may, however, observe that in those Papers no charge of defalcation or fraud was made against Mr. Edmunds. He was charged simply with being a debtor to the Crown; and the information asked that an account might be taken. It was a mere statement that Mr. Edmunds had held an appointment under the Crown, and that, while holding that appointment, he became a debtor to the Crown. On that information a decree was subsequently granted. I do not mean to say anything
 1933 s d
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If his attention has been called to a Military General Order, said to have been issued by the General Commanding-in-Chief in Canada, forbidding Officers to preach to or to teach the men of their Regiments, and in consequence of which two Officers of the Rifle Brigade had sent in papers resigning their Commissions; and, whether: he had any objection to lay a Copy of such General Order on the Table of the House?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the subject of the first part of the hon. Member's Question was now under consideration, but no decision had been come to upon it at present in consequence of the Post Office officials having had their time so greatly taken up by the Electric Telegraphs Bill. He trusted, however, that very shortly some decision upon the point would be arrived at. With regard to the latter part of the hon. Member's Question, he could only say that a case had been stated for the opinion of a Court of Law with respect to the legality of the operation of the Circular Delivery Company, and therefore it would be unadvisable to express any opinion upon the subject at present.
 Ms. M'LAREN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Treasury have yet decided in favour of allowing the Post Office to carry printed matter, not exceeding one ounce in weight, for one halfpenny; and, whether the Treasury will give orders not to take any further legal proceedings to impede the action of Circular Delivery Companies until after the meeting of the new Parliament?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he rose to move for a Copy of the Proceedings taken in the case of Mr. Leonard Edmunds. He would, remind the House that some few years; ago the country was startled by the statement that certain irregularities of a serious nature had occurred in the Patent Office, with which Mr. Edmunds was connected. A Commission of Inquiry was appointed by Lord Westbury, who was at that time Lord Chancellor, The result was that two Reports were published, the last of them dated January, 1865. These Reports disclosed some extraordinary matters—matters which excited great attention in both Houses of Parliament, and throughout the country. The gravest charges, such as peculation, embezzlement, gross dishonesty, wilful falsification of accounts, and many other acts of a like nature were brought against Mr. Edmunds, and in connection with the Suitors' Fund, with which he was said to have meddled, he was branded as a defaulter. Not only was he driven from his office, but he was also deprived of a pension which a Commission of the House of Lords had assigned to him on account of his resignation of his appointment as reading clerk in that House, and, thus broken down, he was thrown upon society with a tarnished reputation. But the case did not stop there. The Government which was at that time in power, and no doubt rightly enough, believed that such, offences in a public servant as those which Mr. Edmunds was alleged to have committed could not be overlooked, and, though his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer) stated that it was not thought advisable to take criminal proceedings against him, civil proceedings
 1930 "In one respect I am happy to say that the arguments and the evidence adduced on behalf of Mr. Edmunds have been successful—that is to say, they have been successful in clearing his character from all imputation. They have satisfied me that his liability, whatever it may be, is a liability from mistake—mistake under circumstances of very considerable difficulty, brought about in some respects because he could not obtain the audits which he asked for, I think, in
 1931 "Having made that preface, I may add that it is not without regret that I have come to this conclusion that in other respects the arguments which have been adduced on behalf of the defendant arc not successful. I think there is jurisdiction in this Court. I think that the direction asked with reference to stamps must be given in the form which I will presently state. I must also declare that he is not entitled to make any deduction whatever for or in respect of the parchment used in the preparation or engrossment of any document issued by him as Clerk of the Patents, or from the office of Clerk of the Patents, or any other deduction whatsoever, in respect of the preparation and engrossment of any such document. It is with regret that I find myself compelled by the terms of the Act of Parliament to make that last declaration. I repeat, as I said at the outset, that I think the defendant's evidence has removed any imputation that can be justly or fairly cast upon his character, and, having regard to all the circumstamces, the very difficult position in which he was placed and the fact of the audits being refused, I certainly shall not make him pay any costs." s d 1932 "A full and complete investigation of the accounts, and also Mr. Edmunds' claims against the Crown arising upon the accounts; "The Crown would not put Mr. Edmunds to the expense and delay of instituting a cross proceeding for enforcing his claims, but would consent to the arbitrator disposing of the whole question without any such proceeding."
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If any consideration has been given to the grievances of the Senior Staff Officers of Pensioners, to which his attention was called, during the last Session of Parliament— namely, that the Memorandum, dated
 1923
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the Public cannot be supplied with the Maps of the Ordnance Survey, as at this time no complete copies of all the Maps can be procured in London; and, why arrangements are not made by which complete sets and portions of the Ordnance Survey publications can be obtained by the Public and the Trade through the Stationery Office, under whose direction the Maps and publications of the Geological Ordnance Survey are satisfactorily issued?
 MR. SEBJEANT GASELEE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is intended to allow any of the full Colonels of the Royal Artillery who have sent in their names for retirement, to have immediate benefit by the sum voted for them on Thursday July 16th?
 MR. SEBJEANT GASELEE  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. T. Hughes), considering the borough which he represented, had stated the case very fairly. But if 1,200 persons had been convicted it was quite plain that there were 12,000 who deserved conviction. The law as it stood now was much too lenient towards rogues. He was a director of a large company, which suffered every day from the rascality of the public. Hitherto they had been in the habit of posting up the names of the persons by whom they were so defrauded; but it had recently been laid down that in doing so railway companies would be guilty of a libel. As the use of false weights was really a dreadful offence he thought it would be better, instead of marking the shop, from which the tradesman might
 1929
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES , who had given Notice to call attention to the inaccurate state of the Standard of Weight and Measure, and to the present system of enforcing the law, whereby half the penalties are paid to the informer, said, he was sorry to have to call the attention of the House to so important a question as that of the standards of weights and measures at this period of the Session, as of course
 1925 1926
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that the matter was under consideration, and he hoped to be able in a few days to I inform the gallant officers interested in it of the decision which had been come to.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he could not think the Senior Staff Officers of Pensioners had any cause of complaint, seeing that considerable advantages in the way of promotion had been extended to them. The best answer he could give to the hon. Member was to state that almost every day he was receiving applications for appointments on the Pensioners' Staff, which were greatly coveted by military men. On the other hand, however, in consequence of the arrangements now in progress with respect to the Army of Reserve, their labours had greatly increased, and he would take into consideration how far those additional labours entitled them to extra pay.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he regretted that the hon. Member had been unable to give him longer Notice of his Question, to the subject of which his attention was called for the first time by, the hon. Member's Notice yesterday; but
 1924
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that, on account of the bulky nature of the maps, there might be some difficulty in obtaining them, though he had never himself experienced the slightest difficulty, lie believed there was no place in England where any portion of the Ordnance Survey might not at once be obtained. It was now under consideration whether it would be convenient to supply them through the Stationery Office, but he was not aware
 1922
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  apologized for not being prepared to answer the question fully. Having been very unwell for the last two days, he had not been able to attend the House, and had in fact seen the Notice for the first time, only a few minutes before. Part of the question, moreover, properly belonged to the Home Office. The law, with regard to penalties, had been altered in many respects; but it had been found by experience that it often slumbered, in consequence of there being no inducement to anybody to enforce it. What was everybody's business was nobody's business, and the evil had been felt in regard to overcrowding themselves, of which so many complaints had been heard. Those, however, who complained of the operation of the law had the remedy in their own hands, because if they used genuine weights and measures they would not be exposed to its operation at all. It always struck him as a very remarkable circumstance that the poor, who were chiefly fleeced by the rascality of the small tradesmen, were yet the very persons to stand up for these offenders against the law which would protect them from their misdoing. As long as such a state of feeling existed, it was hopeless to attempt to enforce the law. It would be a great thing, of course, if the magistrates kept a register, and if the names of the offenders, and the number of their convictions were published; but in the very neighbourhood where these people lived, and where their offences must be well known, the fact did not deter poor persons from dealing with them. The reason, no doubt, in many cases, was that these poor persons were almost always in debt to the shopkeeper, and were therefore under his hand, and a very hard hand it often proved to be. He was not quite able to follow what had been stated by his hon. Friend about shopkeepers being convicted whose weights were too heavy, and could only suppose that the fine in such cases was imposed because the weights were not properly marked with the Government stamp, but had been bought unstamped from some private makers. The variations in the standards to which his hon. Friend had referred was one which it was perfectly impossible to express in terms, and was merely an allowance for the effect of the
 1928
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has received any information as to a projected offensive and defensive alliance between France, Belgium, and Holland, or of any combination of those powers, for purposes hostile to Prussia and Germany?
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that he had yesterday seen the Belgian Minister upon the subject to which the Question related; and he, Baron Dujardin, was authorized by his Government to state, that so far as Belgium is concerned, there is no foundation whatever for the report to which the Question of the hon. Member referred. He understood no proposition of the kind comprised in the Question had been made by France or Belgium, either
 1941
 THE EARL OF MAYO  said, in reply, that neither his attention nor that of the
 1944
 MR. OTWAY : Well, I can assure you that it is true.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his
 1946
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, what has happened at Naples is this. Very acrimonious disputes having arisen amongst the English congregation, and the parties concerned having refused to abide by the decision of the Ecclesiastical authorities, I thought it was not seemly that Her Majesty's Government should be mixed up with the affair, and I therefore felt it my duty to withdraw the grant which had been made under the Consular Act. I am glad, however, to have it in my power to state that what has occurred does not in the slightest degree affect the personal character of Mr. Maitland, whom I have always heard spoken of in the highest terms.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he was desirous of learning, Whether the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs has had any communication from the Envoy of China with regard to the Treaty of Tientsin?
 LORD STANLEY  said, he had received no such communication. He was not aware when the gentleman referred to was expected in this country.
 THE LORD CHANCELLOR  said—
 LORD STANLEY  said, he rose to move a Resolution of Thanks from the House to the Congress of the United States of America for the gift of a volume in reference to the late President Lincoln, and that the Resolution be forwarded to Mr. Secretary Seward for presentation to Congress.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, in the first place, Whether he can state to the: House what has been the result of the inquiry instituted for the purpose of ascertaining whether any insubordination, had been shown by any of the Volunteers on their return from the Windsor Review; and whether, in the event of its being; proved that any insubordination had occurred, any steps have been taken to strike out of the Army the companies or company which had been guilty of such insubordination; and, secondly, whether it is the intention of the right hon. Gentleman during the Recess to take steps to ascertain whether the opinion held by some that the Volunteer Force could not be kept up to their present strength upon the present Parliamentary Capitation Grant is or is not well founded?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in reply, that he was not aware that any inconvenience had arisen to foreigners from the names of the gates not being painted up; but there would be no objection, when the notice boards required re-painting, to place the names of the different parks at their head.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, in reply, that the provision that had been made by Parliament on the recommendation of Her Majesty for Lord Napier of Magdala, in consideration of his eminent services, had been well considered by Her Majesty's Government with reference to all the circumstances; and therefore he could not hold out any hope that the matter would again be open to consideration.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the effect of the Inland Revenue Act would take away the exemptions from taxation of loans by Benefit Societies to strangers, but the exemption would be continued in favour of advances not exceeding £500 made by those Societies to their own members.
 MR. NEATE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has made any inquiry into the circumstances to which he had drawn his attention the other day, of the Household Brigade being kept out in the heat on Wormwood Scrubs from eight in the morning until half past two o'clock in the afternoon, the result being that seven men had to be carried off the ground in vans, and seven or eight others had to be sent to the Hospital?
 MR. NEATE : Will the right hon. Gentleman state of whom he made his inquiries?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the
 1943
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, with regard to Benefit Societies, the sum at which mortgages would be taxable under the Inland Revenue Act would be £200 or £500?
 MR. REARDEN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the attention of the Irish Government has been called to a statement by Mr. George Francis Train's solicitor, that he applied to the Chief Clerk of the Court of Judge Miller, of Dublin, for leave to file an affidavit of Mr. Clark Bell, the solicitor, who paid Mr. Henry the Ebbw Yale Company's claim, being the debt for which Mr. Train is now detained in prison, in order that Mr. Train might be in time to make application on the 29th instant to Judge Miller for his discharge, being the last day on which Judge Miller would sit before the end of the long vacation in November next, and which application would be grounded on the affidavit then presented to him; but that the Chief Clerk in the most peremptory manner refused to receive the affidavit on the files of the Court, on the pretext that the same was not in proper form, and not written on paper prescribed by the rules of the Court; that the affidavit of Mr. Clark Bell was sworn to at Venice, Italy, by Mr. Train, before the British Consul; and whether, if such statement be correct, the Irish Government will recommend that the case of Mr. Train be referred to the Master of the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, in order that the facts and circumstances connected with Mr. Train's continued imprisonment may be inquired into, with a view to his discharge, should it appear that such imprisonment is unjust?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would defer the consideration of the matter pending the inquiry by the Commission.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Sclater-Booth) had left town, and that he was not able to answer the Question for him.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he had answered two days ago a somewhat similar Question put to him by the noble Lord. A Commission was now taking into consideration all the circumstances connected with the discharge of judicial business, and, pending the inquiry by that Commission, he did not think it would be convenient to establish any new Assize town.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, in reply, that he had made inquiry for the purpose of ascertaining the truth of a statement that several prisoners had died in Coldbath Fields Prison under circumstances that had induced the Coroner's Juries to return verdicts which called for further inquiry. He was informed that one adverse verdict had been given, and he intended to make further inquiry into the matter.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, in the abscence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hubbard), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the stipend of the Rev. Pelham T. Maitland, Consular Chaplain at Naples, has been withdrawn; and, if so, then upon what grounds, and especially whether the reasons for such withdrawal affect in any degree the high character Mr. Maitland has always maintained at Naples as a Clergyman of the Church of England?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, in reply, that it had been his intention to introduce a measure for the uniform valuation of the metropolis; but the same reasons that had prevented the progress of important measures which the Government desired to see passed had interfered to prevent him from doing so. He hoped to introduce such a measure next Session.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, with the sanction of the Treasury, have abandoned the scheme of forming a new wide street immediately opposite the Horse Guards, from Whitehall, through Whitehall Yard to the Thames Embankment, as planned by Mr.
 1942
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, Whether he will take into his consideration the advisability of introducing a measure, in the next Session of Parliament, to compel the single parishes in the Metropolis to re-assess, in the same manner as the parishes in unions have been compelled to re-assess under the Union Assessment Act, in order that the contributions to the common fund may be levied throughout the Metropolis on a fair and equal basis?
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, for the convenience of Foreigners and other Visitors to London, he will cause at each of the park gates the name of the gate to he written legibly and conspicuously?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in reply, that he had made inquiries, and that he had been unable to obtain any confirmation of the rumour.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the story of a number of the household cavalry having had to be sent home in cabs, and taken into the hospital after the field-day at Wormwood Scrubs on Tuesday week, was, so far as he could ascertain, without foundation.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, in answer to the first part of the Question of the noble Lord, I have to state that in consequence of information I received in regard to the alleged insubordinate conduct of the Second Company of the First Administrative Battalion of the Hertfordshire Volunteers on the occasion in question, I called on the Commanding Officer for an explanation of the circumstance. I am sorry to say that the explanation I received was by no means satisfactory, and that it became my painful duty to advise that the Second Company of the First Hertfordshire should be removed from the Army List. A similar charge of insubordination on the same day has been made against the Ninth Essex Corps; but, as the inquiry has not yet been completed, it is not in my power to state the course which I shall pursue. With regard to the latter part of the Question, I am not prepared to institute a formal inquiry into the matter; but I shall always be open to any fresh facts which may be placed before me.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  said, he wanted to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would consider the question?
 VISCOUNT MILTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is true that the Government do not intend to take into consideration the necessity of holding Assizes at some convenient place within the Southwestern Division of Yorkshire?
 The RIGHT HONOURABLE SIR GEORGE GREY , addressing himself to the Clerk (who, standing up, pointed to him, and then sat down), said:—Sir Denis Le Marchant, in compliance with the communication which has just been addressed to us by the Crown, it is our duty now to proceed without delay to the election of a Speaker, and I have great satisfaction in proposing that my right hon.
 5 6
 THE RIGHT HONOURABLE SPENCER HORATIO WALPOLE : Sir Denis Le Marchant, at the request of Members on both sides of the House, and of those Gentlemen who naturally and pro-
 7 8
 Then MR. SPEAKER ELECT , standing on the upper step, said: I was about to prefer a request to the House; but I feel, by the manner in which the proceedings of to-day have been conducted, that this favour has been already virtually granted, I was about to ask that the full measure of gracious confidence and generous support which has been afforded me on past occasions, and by which alone the duties of my office can be effectually performed, may be still extended to me. My right hon. Friend who seconded the nomination (Mr. Walpole), has observed that this is not an ordinary occasion, and that new responsibilities devolve in some degree upon us all, and perhaps more particularly on the person who is chosen to preside over this House. We are met to-day under a new state of the electoral law. The late House of Commons was considered not adequately to represent the great body of the people—the present House has been elected on the basis of household suffrage. It has thus been endowed with a considerable increase of power. Whatever measures it may, after due deliberation, consider necessary for the public good, it will doubtless deal with boldly and firmly. At the same time, it will not forget that the great grace and ornament of strength is moderation in its exercise—asserting itself, but respecting the rights of others; and this House has always in its own proceedings acted in that spirit. It has afforded protection to minorities, it has permitted freedom of speech and. ample latitude of debate, and without doubt it will not depart from that course. I hope and firmly believe, that this House will prove itself worthy of its high destinies,
 10
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  stood up in his place and said: I am deeply moved, the House will believe, by the words which have been spoken by my right hon. Friends, and by the manner in which my nomination has been accepted by the House. The House proposes to do me a great honour, and it has largely enhanced the value of that honour by the manner in which it has been conferred. After filling the Chair in three Parliaments, to have a nomination proposed from both sides of the House, and accepted with general concurrence, is
 9
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, the pleasant and honourable, but to me unexpected, task, has—in the absence of those by whom it would have been appropriately discharged—devolved upon me of offering to you, in the name of the House, a few words of congratulation upon the distinction to which the acclamations of its Members have now, for the fourth time, raised you. Mindful, as many of us are, of past Parliaments, in which, during many an eventful day and night spent within those walls, you have maintained the privileges, the order, the dignity and the honour of the House, it is a matter of deep congratulation and gratification to us that, notwithstanding the exactions which its duties have necessarily imposed upon you, you have found yourself prepared once more to undertake its arduous labours and anxieties. I am sure that I only speak the general feeling when I say that, as far as depends on the House over which you have been called upon to preside, the same personal respect and regard—the same loyal and cheerful deference to the authority with which the Constitution and your position invest you—the same ready support to your vindication of the privileges of this House—will be cheerfully accorded in the future as, I believe, they have been experienced by you in the past. In your position—first among the commoners of England, first among the commoners of this nation, and entitled by your office to speak for them in Parliament assembled—I may perhaps express the impression that you may find weight added to your words, as well as lustre to the seat which you occupy, by the fact that in this Parliament you preside over an Assembly which, in a wider sense than ever, is composed of the representatives of the people. Sir, that health and comfort and all prosperity may be around you in the seat which you occupy, lightening the severity of your labours, and inspiring their discharge with vigour, is the fervent and
 11
 MR. SPEAKER  said: I have to report to the House that this House proceeded to the House of Peers, where Her Majesty was pleased, by Her Royal Commissioners, to approve of the choice they have made of myself as their Speaker. I then, on their behalf, laid claim, by humble petition to Her Majesty, to all their ancient rights and privileges, to freedom of speech and of debate, to freedom from arrests of their persons and servants, and to free access to the presence of Her Majesty whenever occasion might require; and further, that the most favourable constructions might be put upon all our actions: all which Her Majesty by the said Commissioners was pleased to allow and to confirm in as ample and complete a manner as they have ever been confirmed by Herself or by any of Her Royal predecessors. And then Mr. SPEAKER repeated his most respectful acknowledgments to the House for the high honour they had done him.
 MR. SPEAKER  then put the House in mind, that the first thing to be done was to take and subscribe the Oath required by law.
 MR. SPEAKER  then took and subscribed the Oath, first alone; and after him several other Members took and subscribed the Oath; and several Members, being of the People called Quakers, made and subscribed the Affirmation required by Law.
 MR. AYRTON : In asking the House to proceed to order the issue of New Writs, in accordance with the gracious communication which this House has just received from the Crown, it may be convenient for me to state the course proposed to be pursued in consequence of the great change that has taken place through the passing of the law of last year regulating the proceedings at elections. Under the regulations which have now been superseded, petitions against the return of Members were presented to this House within such time as the House prescribed under power conferred upon it by statute, and in the exercise of that power the House used ordinarily to provide by a Sessional Order that all such petitions should be presented within fourteen days after the return of the election. But in consequence of the law which was passed last year election petitions will now be presented to a tribunal independent of this House—namely, to the Court of Common Pleas in England, and to a similar Court in Scotland and Ireland. Such petitions are to be presented within twenty-one days after the returns have been delivered to the officer appointed to receive them, and therefore this House cannot now proceed as it used to do in this matter. We must now consider what will be the most convenient course to pursue in consequence of the change that has taken place. If I were to ask what is the most convenient course, no doubt, if there are differences of opinion among hon. Members, I should give rise to considerable discussion; but I
 17
 MR. AYRTON  would venture to deprecate a continuance of the discussion, since it could not lead to any immediate conclusion on the point raised by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Goldney). When the House met for the despatch of business the subject would doubtless engage its attention, and any hon. Member would have an opportunity of expressing his views upon it. As to the petition against Mr. Goschen's return, he need hardly assure the House that he had informed himself properly upon the point. He held in his hand an office copy of that petition, and the petition did not claim the seat. The fact was admitted by his hon. and learned Friend, and, in making the Motion, he had acted under a full sense of responsibility and in accordance with the rule to which he had referred.
 SPEAKER   reported 16 "My Lords, and Gentlemen, "We have it further in command from Her Majesty to acquaint you that, since the time when Her Majesty deemed it right to call you together, for the consideration of many grave and important matters, several vacancies have occurred in the House of Commons owing to the acceptance of Office from the Crown by Members of that House. It is therefore Her Majesty's pleasure that an opportunity may now be given to issue Writs for supplying the vacancies so occasioned, and that, after a suitable Recess, you may proceed to the consideration of such matters as will then be laid before you."
 SIR ROUNDELL PALMER  agreed with the hon. and learned Member that
 19
 MR. COLLINS  concurred with the hon. and learned member for Richmond (Sir Roundell Palmer) in thinking that the House should issue the Writ. Indeed, he thought they should consider whether they ought not to issue a Writ no matter whether the seat was claimed or not, for otherwise it was open to any elector or candidate to petition and claim the seat of a Cabinet Minister, thus delaying his re-election for a considerable period. If they invariably issued a Writ, the person wrongly returned at the second election would be in nearly the same position as the person originally returned—in other words, he would lose his seat. Facilities should not be offered for vexatious petitions, which might run the risk of interfering with the choice of the Crown. He believed the question was first raised in the case of Lord Chief Justice Cockburn's election for Southampton, and again in that of Lord Bury's return for Norwich. Lord Bury was re-elected, but no injustice was inflicted on his opponents, for they petitioned against the second return, on the ground that he was incapacitated by reason of bribery committed by his agents at the former election, and he was unseated. No wrong would be sustained by any parties by the issue of the Writ in all cases.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that under the old system the House had cognizance of the petitions, and the criterion in issuing a Writ, as determined by the Speaker in 1859 in accordance with a precedent of 1852, was whether the seat was claimed by the petitioners or not. If the seat was claimed, the House declined to issue a Writ, while if otherwise the writ was issued. Under the Act of last Session the only knowledge which the House and the public had of a seat being petitioned against was derived from the official list of the petitions, which the Act prescribed to be drawn up. Now upon that list appeared the name of Mr. Goschen as one of the Members whoso return was disputed, and the House had no official information as to whether the seat was claimed by the petitioner or not. He believed that, in point of fact, Mr. Gosehen's seat was not claimed, though the seats of other Members were claimed. He had intended to move for a Return and copies of all election petitions; but the Speaker had ruled that he could, only give notice of such a Motion, and the House must therefore consider whether, in the absence of any knowledge of the contents of the petition against Mr. Goschen, it would be right to issue the Writ. It was possible that some other person might be returned if the Writ was issued, and, supposing the seat claimed, the petitioner might be returned by order of the Judge, by which the House would be bound to abide, although a third party had since been elected. He did not know whether any evidence would be offered to satisfy the House the seat was not claimed, and he should be glad to hear an expression of opinion from the Chair as to the best course to be pursued under the circumstances.
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, that with regard to the Writ which had just been moved for, he thought it was quite right that some Member of this House should take notice of the rather exceptional circumstances under which the House had assembled. The fact of their having met in the middle of the Christmas holy-days sufficiently proved the inconvenience to which he was about to call attention. Indeed, the inconvenience to Members was so great that he believed the Secretary to the Treasury was astonished that the House had been got together at all; and he shuddered to think of the inconvenience which would have arisen if the Government had been unable to make a House, and if they had been obliged to adjourn from time to time until some fortuitous occurrence of events should have brought a sufficient number of Members together. The only reasons which led to the holding of an Autumn Session had disappeared before the assembling of Parliament on the 10th of December. It was necessary, however, that the ceremony should be gone through in order that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone) might go to consult his constituents. It was not sufficient that the right hon. Gentleman had, during the previous election, delivered speeches which, in his opinion, would become the Reform book of the future and the  Vade Mecum 22
