 THE HONOURABLE LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH : I rise to second the nomination of the right hon. Henry Brand as Speaker of this House; and in doing so I feel that I possess no
 8 9 10
Then  MR. SPEAKER ELECT , standing on the upper step, said: I beg to tender once more my acknowledgments to the House for the honour it has conferred upon mo. It is the greatest honour that can be conferred upon any Member of the House, and it will be my earnest endeavour to deserve the confidence thus reposed in me:—and thereupon sat down in the Chair.
 MAJOR GENERAL SIR PERCY HERBERT said: In the unavoidable absence of the Leader of this House and of others upon whom this duty would naturally fall, because of constitutional rules with which we are all acquainted, it has de-
 12
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the various parts connected with this important transaction have been performed with excellent ability, and with a cordiality which, I must say, I have never known exceeded. Under these circumstances, perhaps it may appear superfluous and obtrusive on my part to rise, but I do so to offer you in a few words my hearty congratulations; and I may find an apology for thus intruding myself upon the House, in the fact that at no very distant period I was responsible in some degree for the original selection and proposal of your name as Speaker. I therefore, Sir, avail myself of this opportunity to state that which I deeply feel—not only my great satisfaction at the manner in which everything said relative to yourself personally has been received on all sides of the House, but likewise at the unanimity with which the House has on this occasion affirmed and acted upon the usage of what I may call your continuity in
 13 14
 MR. HENRY CHAPLIN , addressing himself to the Clerk (who, standing up, pointed to him, and then sat down), said:—Sir Erskine May,—It now becomes the business of the House of Commons, in accordance with the gracious communication which we have just received from the Crown, to proceed to perform its first, and certainly not its least important duty, by the election of a Speaker to occupy the Chair, and although in making the proposal which I am now about to submit to the consideration of the House I am fully conscious that there must be many hon. Members who, from their greater and more lengthened knowledge and experience of the customs, practice, and traditions of this House, are more entitled to undertake this task than I am, yet at least I can say this much—that no one could experience more unfeigned satisfaction than myself in doing so on this
 6 7
 MR. BRAND  stood up in his place and said: Two years ago this House did me the high honour to call me to the Chair. At that time I was much impressed with the gravity of the charge, and I doubted whether I was sufficient for such things. Further reflection and some experience of service in the Chair have deepened my sense of the grave responsibility attaching to that dignified position, and I should shrink from the undertaking, unless I was assured of that support which this House, in its generosity, uniformly extends to its Speaker. The support of this House is the only sure foundation of the moral authority of the Speaker. Without that support, he is powerless; but with it
 11
 MR. SPEAKER : I have the pleasure to acquaint the House that I have been to the House of Peers, where Her Majesty, by Commission, has been pleased to approve of the choice which this House has made of me as their Speaker. I have, by petition to Her Majesty, laid claim, on behalf of this House, to all the undoubted Rights and Privileges of the House, more particularly for freedom of speech in debate, for freedom from arrest for our persons and servants, and above all for freedom of access to Her Majesty whenever occasion may require, and also that the most favourable construction may be placed on our proceedings. I desire now for myself to renew my humble acknowledgments to the House for the honour it has conferred on me by placing me for the second time in the Chair. It will be my constant endeavour to facilitate the order and conduct of Public Business in this House, and for that purpose I wish to place my services at the disposal of this House. It is now my duty to remind hon. Members that the first business we have to discharge is to take and subscribe the oath prescribed to us by law. I now call upon the Clerk to administer the oath to myself.
 MR. HART DYKE : I rise, Sir, to move that this House, at its rising, do adjourn till Thursday next at three o'clock. I think it is due to hon. Members that I should state the cause for the adjournment which I now propose. In the case of several Members of the Government who have accepted offices under the Crown, the 21 days necessary to intervene under the Act have not elapsed since they were last elected. I think that hon. Members on both sides of the House will see the desirability that the election of the responsible Ministers of the Crown should take place as soon as possible. And it is for that reason that I ask the House to adjourn to Thursday next. I may state also that in all probability the House will meet for the transaction of Public Business on Thursday week next (the 19th inst.)
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING MAXWELL , in rising to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty in answer to Her gracious Speech, said: I am not sure that I have
 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to thank Her Majesty for the Most Gracious Speech delivered by Tier Command to both Houses of Parliament: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that Her relations with all Foreign Powers continue to be most friendly, and that Her Majesty's influence arising from these cordial relations will be exercised for the maintenance of European peace and the faithful observance of international obligations: 63 "To assure Her Majesty that we rejoice to learn that the Marriage of His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh with the Grand Duchess Marie Alexandrowna of Russia is a source of happiness to Her Majesty, and to unite with Her Majesty in welcoming it as a pledge of friendship between the two Empires: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that the War with the King of Ashantee has terminated in the capture and destruction of his capital, and in negotiations which, we trust, may lead to a more satisfactory condition of affairs than has hitherto prevailed on the West Const of Africa: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that we rejoice to learn that the courage, discipline, and endurance displayed by Her Majesty's Forces together with the skill and energy evinced in the conduct of the expedition, have maintained the traditionary reputation of the British Arms: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that we join in Her Majesty's regret that the drought of last summer has produced scarcity amounting to actual famine in some parts of Her Majesty's Indian Empire, and that we learn with satisfaction that Her Majesty has directed the Governor General of India to spare no cost in striving to mitigate this terrible calamity: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that the Estimates for the services of the approaching financial year will be forthwith submitted to us: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that Her Majesty has issued a Royal Commission to inquire into the state and working of the recent Act of Parliament affecting the relationship of Master and Servant, of the Act of 1871, which deals with offences connected with Trade, and of the Law of Conspiracy as connected with these offences, with a view to the early amendment of the present law on these subjects, if it should be found necessary: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty 'that we will give our earnest consideration to the measures of public usefulness which may be presented to us, and that we fervently join in Her Majesty's prayer that the Almighty may guide our deliberations for the welfare of Her Realm."
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the House will, I am sure, forgive me—and I may ask for your forgiveness—if I forbore to rise from my seat until the words of the Question had actually passed from your lips; because I felt it was possible that other Gentlemen, Members of this House might think fit to follow the example which was set by my hon. Friend the Member for Perthshire (Sir William Stirling-Maxwell), the Mover of the Address, and question the conduct of the late Government in advising Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament; and I was not only desirous, but considered it my duty to give an opportunity, so far as lay in my power, for any observations of that hind, believing that, inasmuch as I must of necessity bear, not indeed the exclusive, but a special responsibility for that advice, it would be convenient and advantageous to the House that I should hear the criticisms made on our conduct, which any hon. Member might desire to make, before I took notice of the subject. As the immediate question which has been submitted to the House is not the adoption of the Address, but an Amendment to it, I will in the first place say a few words with respect to that Amendment, and I am sure my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. W. M. Torrens) who has proposed it will admit that we approach, at some disadvantage, the consideration of words which have been heard for the first time from the Chair in a debate of this character. Listening to these words as read by you, Sir, I can have no doubt that they do the greatest credit to the humane sentiments of my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. He is not satisfied with the statements of the Speech, but desires, if I gather rightly the purport of his Amendment, to have a more emphatic repetition of the sentiments suggested by the Speech, or contained in the Address which has been moved and seconded. In that Address
 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85
 MR. PELL  desired, before the Question was put, to make one or two remarks on the subject of local taxation, which was not referred to in her Majesty's Speech. That subject, he trusted, would not be neglected by Her Majesty's Government. He hoped something would be done to remedy the injustice which many people believed they were labouring under, although, at the same time, he trusted the Government would not follow the example of the late Administration by imposing new charges on the owners of land and houses before disposing of the general question as to whether the balance were hold evenly between the owners of personalty and the owners of realty.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it will be gratifying to Her Majesty's Government that the objections to the Address, which has been moved and seconded with such great ability, have met with slight favour to-night. There appear, however, to be two points which have been urged against it which I will at once notice. The first refers to the passage in which we have alluded to the terrible calamity which now exists in parts of India. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Fins-bury (Mr. Torrens) seems to think that our expressions with reference to this circumstance are somewhat imperfect; and he has moved an Amendment which, unluckily, is not before mo, but the spirit of which, I think, I record with tolerable accuracy. I understand that my hon. Friend thinks we ought to call upon the House vaguely to pledge itself to do something which he does not define, in order to prevent the recurrence
 86 87 88 89 90 91
 MR. RICHARD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. CALLENDER.  said, he must claim for himself that consideration which the House always extended to these who had the honour of addressing it for the first time. He did so, not as a mere matter of form, more particularly as he felt that no small responsibility
 64 65 66 67 68
 MR. W. M. TORRENS , in moving an Amendment, at end of sixth paragraph, to add the words,
 "Conscious of the obligation of Parliament to take especial care of the condition of India, we desire to assure Your Majesty of the interest and anxiety with which we shall be ready to consider any measure that may be brought before us tending; to mitigate the distress which now prevails in that portion of the Umpire, and to avert such calamity in future." 69 70 "The first object to which we ought to direct our attention is, the restoring to its natural state the relation between labour and these who employed it. When there are 430,000 persons employed in Ireland by the State, at the enormous expense of £158,000 a week, it is clear that something should at once he done. We should endeavour to direct this labour first to the immediate cultivation of the soil, in order that we may have the prospect of a future harvest; and then, when this prospect shall be tolerably certain, to the permanent improvement of the soil."—[3  Hansard 71 72
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, that he had received a Letter from the Lord Chief Justice of England, which Mr. SPEAKER read to the House, as followeth:—
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House that he had received a Letter from John Ramsay,
 55
 MR. SPEAKER   reported
 MR. CHAPLIN  said, it could not be denied that the new Parliament met under peculiar circumstances. It was not only that the two great parties in the State had undergone so wondrous a
 119 120 121 122
 MR. JOHN GEORGE MAcCARTHY  rose to support the Amendment. He especially needed the indulgence which that Assembly usually accorded to those who were addressing it for the first time, because he was about to submit to it views which were, perhaps, thoroughly opposed to the preconceived opinions held by the largo majority of the hon. Members he was addressing. He was not, however, unacquainted with the traditional courtesy and forbearance of that branch of the Legislature. It had been stated by a high authority that one of the safeguards of the liberty of this country was that any opinion, provided it was a reasonable one, and was expressed with reasonable courtesy and moderation, was sure of a fair hearing in the British House of Commons. He was old enough to remember principles which, when first advocated in that House, were distasteful to the great majority of the Members, being in the main right, and being in the main honestly advocated, had eventually been accepted by the Legislature, and embodied in Acts of Parliament which were triumphantly passed by overwhelming majorities, and were now regarded as safeguards of the State. Attention had been called to
 123 124 "Be assured that a natural, cheerful alliance is a more secure bond of connection than subjugation borne with grumbling and discontent." 125
 MR. GLADSTONE : I need make no apology for addressing the House when it is considered that the debate, although short, has been one of many branches, and that it concerns the conduct of the late Government more than that of the present Administration. In particular I am anxious to acknowledge the perfectly legitimate character of the appeal made to me by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate). In addressing the House last evening I confined myself strictly to the points that were then raised, with an exception to which I need not now refer; but the point to which the hon. Member has referred is one of much constitutional importance, and I am glad he has afforded me an opportunity of offering a word of explanation. He has stated the doctrine and the practice of the Constitution with perfect accuracy. It is to the Crown that the selection of Ministers is intrusted, and the advice of Parliament is that to
 128 129 130 131 132 133 134 135 136 "With regard to the question of the Land Act I beg to refer yon to the votes I gave during the passing of the Land Act, every one of which was given in support of its principle, but at the same time directed to make it clear and simple. The hest proof of my sincerity on the subject is to he found in the relations which exist between my father and his tenants."" 137
 MR. SULLIVAN : Sir, it, is manifest from the speech which we have just heard from the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland that the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) has, at all events, wrought a remarkable conversion with at least one Member of the Administration. The right hon. Gentleman has declared there is a great deal needed in the way of legislation for Ireland which he alleges this House is willing and able to do. Well, it is something for us to know that the right hon. Gentleman does not agree with his Chief in considering our country to have been "debauched by legislation," and that he is ready to grapple with the questions awaiting solution. He tells us that any laws which cannot be on-forced had better be repealed. I agree with the right hon. Gentleman. I take him at his word. There are many such laws relating to Ireland, hateful relics of a bygone time when oppression and persecution were free to wreak their will upon our land. I call upon the right hon. Gentleman to keep his word with us on this point; and I beg him to begin by repealing a law cruel, unjust, and wicked, which has never been enforced, which never could be enforced, in Ireland. I allude to the law against the Regular Orders of the Catholic Church. It may be a surprise to some hon. Gentlemen to learn that at the present moment, in this age so lauded for tolerance and religious equality, the Religious Orders of the Catholic Church are still under a penal proscription, and may, every man of them, be dragged to prison or deported as a criminal. The right hon. Gentleman will hardly say that this is a law he means to enforce; it was and is too outrageous to be enforced;
 161 162 163 avertissement 164 Cries of and Laughter 165 Douglas, or the Haunted Inn laughter 166 167 "Forgiveness to the injured doth belong; They never do forgive who do the wrong." 168
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he would only make one observation. He was sorry the hon. and learned Member for Limerick did not state at an earlier hour of the evening that he had no intention to divide. It appeared to him that the Amendment so stealthily prepared and introduced to the House, was no more than a pretence. He had been told that the debate would go on till late, as many English Members were so enamoured of the views of the hon. and learned Member that they were determined to ad-dross the House. But that now appeared to be a mere pretence, not one English Member having yet addressed the House, and he believed it would turn out that no English Member was in favour of the views of the hon. and learned Member, and that statements of that kind were only thrown out to delude the Irish people.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, he wished to congratulate the noble Lord the Under Secretary of State for India on the admirable manner in which he had performed the delicate and difficult task which had been entrusted to him. He rejoiced at the measure which the Government proposed to take, believing it was a first step in the right direction. The finances of India did not at this moment require the Imperial guarantee. They were sufficiently sound and solid for Parliament simply to give its sanction to the raising of such a loan as the Indian Government thought necessary for the moment. He sincerely trusted that the calculations made by the Viceroy and the Home Government would be amply justified by the result. He had never felt any serious doubts as to the ability of the Indian Government to supply the requisite
 187
 Loan GEORGE HAMILTON , in rising to move a Resolution, That it is expedient to enable the Secretary of State in Council of India to raise a sum, not exceeding £10,000,000, in the United Kingdom, for the service of the Government of India, on the credit of the revenues of India, said, that the portion of Her Majesty's most gracious Speech which referred to the Bengal Famine, expressed a wish that no money should be spared so that life might be saved, and in the spirit of that wish he was now about to ask leave for the introduction of a Bill which would place funds with that object in the possession of the Indian Government. Considering the exceptional gravity of the crisis existing in India, and the great interest felt in it not only by hon. Members, but throughout the country, he trusted the Committee would excuse him if he detained them at some little length. His hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. "W. M. Torrens) yesterday moved an Amendment to the Address, on the ground that Her Majesty's Government were not sufficiently aware of the gravity of the present crisis, and were not, in consequence, prepared to take sufficiently energetic action. If his hon. Friend, or any other hon. Gentleman, still entertained that idea, he trusted he should be able to dispel the illusion when he said that in the Bill which he proposed to introduce he was about to ask for power to raise £10,000,000. He thought that sum would be a sufficient indication that the Government were fully alive to the gravity of the present crisis. In making a statement which would necessarily involve a certain amount of detail, he trusted the House would not forget the difficulties under which he laboured—first in having to succeed the hon. Member for Elgin (Mr. Grant Duff), who for five years not only represented the India Office in that House with great ability, but who, in addition, brought to bear on every Indian subject a fund of accumulated knowledge to which he
 175 176 177 178 179 180 per diem matériel 181 s employés 182 183 per diem 184 Mens æqua in arduis 185 186 Moved to resolve
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  in reply, said, that he hoped to be able to lay on the Table to-morrow an abstract of the despatches which had passed between the Viceroy and the Secretary of State for India, and to supplement this abstract by furnishing the last three despatches in full.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would not condemn the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) in declining to sanction the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt); for if he had himself been consulted unon the question he should have advised that no Motion should have been made upon the Address. If the hon. and learned Member intended to divide the House upon his Motion he would prejudge the question, and he (Lord Robert Montagu) agreed with the right hon. Member for Greenwich that the hon. and learned Member would be taking the most certain course for making very few Members vote with him. He (Lord Robert Montagu) never entertained the notion that there should be a separate Irish Parliament, and yet that Irish Members should interfere in English and Scotch affairs; it would be unjust and unreasonable. What was asked for was bare justice—equal treatment with the rest of the Empire; but Home Rulers objected to being swamped in an English Parliament, and to having the voice of Ireland ignored altogether. What we claim, we claim as of right under the Constitution. The right hon. Gentleman supposed two alternatives—either that Irish Members were to enter the Imperial Parliament and be precluded from voting upon a certain class of subjects, or else that things were to remain as they now were. Those were not alternatives. What Irish Members desired existed in Ireland until 1800. It had been proclaimed by the Queen in Orders in Council; it was carried out in every Colony, in the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands; and why did Ireland not have it? The right hon. Gentleman asked what were Irish affairs. The right hon. Gentleman was in the House when it provided a Parliament for the Colonics, and especially for Canada; and did he ever ask what were Canadian or Australian subjects and what were English, subjects? Did he know what subjects belonged to the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands and what to England? The drainage of the Shannon, for example, was a matter that concerned Ireland exclusively; and there were many others which belonged to Ireland and
 138 139 140 141 142 143 Hansard Hansard "Tory principles, the natural principles of the democracy of England. They might not be the principles of those consistent Gentlemen whose fathers had bled in England for Charles I., and who now would support in Ireland the tyranny established by Oliver Cromwell.—[ Ibid 144 "Let them forget two centuries of political conduct for which Toryism was not responsible: let them recur to the benignant policy of Charles I.; then they might settle Ireland with honour to themselves, with kindness to the people, and with safety to the realm."—[ Ibid "Did not Mr. Pitt, the last of Tory statesmen, propose measures for the settlement of Ireland"—an equal endowment for the Catholic Church and the erection of Catholic Universities and seminaries—"which, had they been agreed to by Parliament, would have saved Ireland from her present condition? They would have had the Roman Catholics of Ireland emancipated at a very early period, and they would have had the Church question, too, settled at a very early period."—[ Ibid. 145 146
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  thought it would be convenient if the First Lord of the Treasury would also state what was likely to be the course of business next week, and at what time they were to be released from their arduous labours?
 MR. DISRAELI : I am not surprised at the feeling of astonishment—I hope it may not be described as even a more painful sentiment—which has been shown on an allusion being made to a proposal that the House should meet to-morrow. The fact is, however, that the claims of Public Business are at this moment so exigent that I must not only ask this House to meet to-morrow, but we must use our influence to induce the august Assembly which sits in "another place" to meet likewise on a Saturday—I mean on Saturday week. I will point out the mode in which I think the claims of Public Business, however exigent, may be met—but it is only with the aid of the cordial support of the House that they can be met successfully. We propose that the House should assemble at 12 o'clock to-morrow, and we shall at that sitting introduce the Excess Votes for 1872–3, and the Supplementary Estimates, amounting to £315,000, for 1873–4, and shall ask, moreover, for a Vote of Credit on account of the Ashantee War. On Monday we propose to go into Committee of Supply, when we shall ask for a Vote on Account for two
 110 tour de force
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, any question which involves the Privileges of the Members of this House should always be treated with great attention and consideration. In regard to the present case, I am not prepared in any way to give an opinion on its merits. I am not sufficiently aware of the circumstances, nor have I myself had time to consider them. But certainly,  primâ facie
 MR. NEWDEGATE  inquired of the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it was his intention that the House should sit to-morrow, and, if so, at what time and for what business?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister had announced that he proposed the House should meet  de die in diem 126 127
 MR. RITCHIE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, as business in the City is now discontinued on the days set apart as Bank Holidays, Her Majesty's Government will extend to the employés in the Customs Department the benefit of the holidays established by the Bank Holidays Act?
 MR. ONSLOW  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, How soon the Papers relating to the Indian Famine would be laid upon the Table of the House?
 MR. WHALLEY  accordingly handed up his Motion in writing—as follows—"That the Letter of the Lord Chief Justice, read by Mr. Speaker to the House on the 19th instant, he referred to the Committee of Privileges to examine and report whether any of the matters referred to therein demand the further attention of this House."
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had very specially to solicit the favourable consideration and indulgence of the House for a few remarks—and they should be very few—which he desired to address to the Speaker in reference to the communication from the Lord Chief Justice which the right hon. Gentleman had read to the House on the previous day. He was not present when that letter was read, or a very few words at the close would, perhaps, have disposed of the matter so far as he was himself personally concerned; but acting under the best advice he could obtain, he considered it was due to the House—though emulating, in some small degree, the excellent example of the Lord Chief Justice himself in paying due respect to that House—that he should not allow the circumstances which he had thought fit to bring to the notice of the House to pass without notice; he (Mr. Whalley) being the person concerned in that transaction
 102 103 Law and Practice of Parliament 104
 MR. BUTT , in moving an Amendment to the Address, said, he was fully aware of the objection that might be raised to
 111 "We also think it right humbly to represent to Your Majesty that dissatisfaction prevails very extensively in Ireland with the existing system of government in that country, and that complaints are mode that under that system the Irish people do not enjoy the full benefits of the Constitution and of the free principles of the law and we humbly assure Your Majesty that we shall regard it as the duty of Parliament, on the earliest opportunity, to consider the origin of this dissatisfaction with a view to the removal of all just causes of discontent." 112 113 114 Hamlet 115 s 116 117 118
 MR. BUTT : I did not complain at all of any convictions. I complained of the law which makes it a penal offence to own a pistol, and of the unconstitutional power given to policemen to search houses for arms, and of the exercise of that power.
 MR. BUTT  wished to say one word in explanation. He did intend to divide.
 MR. BUTT  said, he did not wish to put the House to the trouble of dividing. He would ask permission to withdraw the Motion, or allow it to be negatived without a division.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone) had reproached the Irish Members of Parliament with not having stopped or opposed measures which they had to-night complained of. As to the truth of the reproach, he admitted that it might be true as related to many of the former Irish Members; but he denied that it was ever true as related to the Irish electors. It was a fact that in former times many of the Irish County Members were returned by territorial influence despite of the popular desire; but now there was a considerable number of Irish Members in the House in accordance with that feeling. Formerly the Irish borough Members did represent the Irish boroughs; but he denied that the Irish
 147 148
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he was a Member of the House when Mr. Wellesley was committed by Lord Brougham for contempt of his Court. He believed that on that occasion a Select Committee was appointed to inquire into the circumstances, and he therefore wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair whether a precedent had not been furnished in that case which might very properly be followed in the present instance?
 MR. BIGGAR  mentioned that, although no Home Rulers had been returned for Ulster, one candidate belonging to that party, who stood in the neighbouring county of Monaghan, had been exceedingly near getting in. Even in Ulster, notwithstanding the result of the elections, the people were very much divided on the subject of Home Rule.
 MR. M. BROOKS , in seconding the Amendment, claimed indulgence as a new Member, and said he professed to be a loyal and dutiful subject of Her Majesty; he yielded to no man in the desire to maintain the dignity of the Throne and the integrity of the Empire; but, having a stake in Ireland, and as Chief Magistrate of the second city of the Empire (Dublin), he did not shrink from the responsibility he had undertaken. It was impossible to look round and say that dissatisfaction did not prevail in Ireland. He did not hesitate to declare that dissatisfaction in Ireland was wide-spread, while disloyalty was rare. As to the causes of that dissatisfaction, when he remembered that the Roman Catholic hierarchy, and the clergy and laity without one single dissentient, claimed that the higher education of the youth of the country should be free from the control of his co-religionists, the Protestants, and the Imperial Parliament had refused that demand, dissatisfaction could not but prevail in Ireland. There was also a strong feeling among his countrymen that really Irish affairs should be managed according to Irish ideas.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : In answer to the first point, I believe I may say, with certainty, that to every person who could have any fair or reasonable ground for the request, a licence to carry arms would be granted. With regard to the second point, I can inform the hon. and learned Gentleman that during the half-year ending the 31st of December, 1873, there have been only 21 arrests in the whole of Ireland for the unlawful possession of arms. There have been only four summary convictions by magistrates under these provisions,
 157 158 159 160
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : I have listened to this debate with a feeling of gratification somewhat mingled with disappointment. I have been gratified to hoar from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) that Irishmen no longer desire the separation of the United Kingdom. I have been gratified also to hear from other hon. Members who have taken part in the debate, that they arc, equally with us, in favour of supporting the dignity of the Crown and the integrity of the Empire, and that among the ranks of those who have been returned to this House as Home Rulers there are men who yield in loyalty to no subjects of Her Majesty. But I confess I have also been disappointed to find, after the hopes which were hold out elsewhere by the hon. Member who has just sat down, and who said that the Resolutions to be moved on the first night of the Session would astonish the sleepy benches opposite, [Mr. MITCHELL HENRY: Not Resolutions in reference to Home Rule.] that the Resolution which has boon proposed and the arguments which have been adduced in support of it are scarcely of a character to correspond with the hon. Member's description. I have also been disappointed that in a debate which after all has mainly turned on the question of Home Rule—a question which, as we have been informed by the hon. Member for Galway, the Irish people have gravely considered and made up their minds upon—we have had no definite sketch whatever of what is meant by Home Rule. I do not intend on the present occasion to enter at any length into that question. I do not think this is a fitting time to debate it, and, at any rate, it is impossible to debate a proposal which has never yet been presented to this House. What I would say, however, is this. If hon. Members who have been returned to support Home Rule are, as no doubt they are, loyal subjects of the Crown and anxious to redress a constitutional grievance, as they consider it, by constitutional means, it is somewhat strange that they should have been obliged to hold a secret meeting in Dublin with a view to agree on their future course of procedure. It appears
 154 155 "That under that system the Irish people do not enjoy the full benefits of the Constitution or of the free principles of the Law." 156
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  praised the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) for the courage he had shown in bringing prominently before the House and the country the general grievances of the Irish people. If any excuse were wanted for the circumstance that those who were interested in Irish affairs had refrained from introducing this subject yesterday, it was to be found in their desire to give a fair opportunity to the Government now in power of showing a readiness to conciliate the Irish people. But surely it could not be contended that if one great portion of the British Empire was discontented, it was unconstitutional to declare that fact at the very opening of Parliament. Wherever discontent might exist in England, Ireland, or Scotland, it must affect the hearts of the people and weaken the integrity of the Empire; and he would indeed be an unconstitutional statesman who did not desire to ascertain without delay the causes of the dissatisfaction in order that, if possible, they might be removed. The subject of Home Rule had been calmly and deliberately considered in Ireland, and by the voice of the great body of her representatives that integral part of the United Kingdom had declared her firm conviction—while desiring to cement still further the bonds which united us in a common Empire—that the whole system of the government of Ireland must be changed if we were really in the future to stand shoulder to shoulder as a united, consolidated power. He regretted to hear the unfortunate words that had been used with reference to a loyal portion of the people of Ireland—namely, that in seeking for Home Ride they were advocating rebellion. If any writer or speaker elsewhere said that advocates
 151 "Ill fares the land to hastening ills a prey. Where wealth accumulates and men decay." 152 Laughter. 153
 MR. LOWE : I cannot help thinking that the advice given to us by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government is the one that we should do wisely to adopt—that we should refer the matter to a Select Committee of moderate numbers, where it can be very much more conveniently dealt with than it could be by the Committee of Privileges, which embodies practically the House at large. It must be observed that the Lord Chief Justice has informed us of the fact that a Member of this House has been committed for contempt, but has not stated the circumstances of the ease. It will therefore be the duty of the Committee to ascertain those circumstances, and I think that can be better done by a moderately sized Select Committee of inquiry than by a very largo Committee of Privileges. I therefore quite agree with the right hon. Gentleman that it is very desirable that we should have a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances. It is quite right, I wish to add, that the House should always be jealous on this subject, and that it should allow nothing to pass without investigation. At the same time I hope it will be fully understood that in appointing a Committee to ascertain the circumstances, that appointment does not imply the slightest censure on the Lord Chief Justice.
 MR. LAING  expressed the great satisfaction with which he had listened to the statement of the noble Lord the Under Secretary for India. It showed that a great calamity had been met in a spirit worthy of the English nation and of the Government of India. It was perfectly clear that the Government had not been drifting on loosely and vaguely, but that the difficulty had been looked in the face by Lord Northbrook from the first, and that he had provided for it with a wisdom and energy deserving of commendation. The late as well as the present Government showed, in his opinion, great wisdom in not interfering with the measures taken by the Viceroy. Our duty was, beyond doubt, to furnish without stint the means necessary to meet the emergency, and then to give the able men who had to deal with it in India our cordial support. As to the particular proposal before the House, the Government was, he thought, quite right in applying for a large sum of money to cover any possible contingency, though the whole of that money might not be required. In the long run it would, he
 188
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, they were not called upon to form any opinion as to the merits of the case, but certainly he did not think this was a case which ought to be passed by without the appointment of a Committee to inquire into it. He was not going to be so impertinent
 106 107
 MR. W. JOHNSTON  desired to enter a strong protest on behalf of the province of Ulster against the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt). The people of Ulster were perfectly satisfied with the British connection, and were sensible of the advantages which accrued to Ireland from the fact that she was an integral part of the great British Empire. They did not desire that their connection with a nation which had added lustre and honour to the name of Irishmen should be brought to a close. They desired, on the contrary, to protest against the secret and insidious meaning of this Home Rule movement. Attempts had been made on several occasions to disguise that meaning; but the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) who had spoken, he was sorry to say, from the Conservative side, with the zeal of a convert at once political and religious, had quite disabused their minds of any notion which might have prevailed that this was not really a religious question, and that the desire for Rome rule was not the actual motive of the agitation for Home Rule. The noble Lord had manifested a desire for denominational education. What did denominational education mean? It meant the handing over of the education of Ireland to the
 149 150
 MR. REDMOND  said, that the opinion of the people of Ireland had been constitutionally called for, and they had in reply returned a great majority of Members pledged to demand an entire change in the management of affairs. If hon. Members wished to know the strength of Irish feeling on this subject, they must look not only to the number
 170
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, that if Parliament rose early he hoped that Government would take care that proper funds should be available, if required, for the saving of life in India, for he doubted very much when he recalled the history of the famine which had occurred in the same part of India 100 years ago, whether the present famine would not continue till September, and therefore whether it would not be wise to ask for powers to borrow £15,000,000 instead of £10,000,000. He thought he might add that, owing to the inaccurate and indeed unreliable statistics they were possessed of relating to Bengal, the causes of the famine ought to be clearly investigated, and the area of cultivated land for the production of food ought to be considerably extended, in order that an adequate supply of food might be provided for the present vast and yearly increasing population of the country. Steps ought also, he contended, to be taken to meet the difficulties of transport and distribution of food which were obviously the serious obstacles, in the present crisis, to feeding the people. He trusted the House would cordially support the propositions now made to it, and without delay pass the Bill authorizing a loan of £10,000,000, and thereby prove to India that the people of this country were anxious and ready to lend their money to aid the Government to provide food for the famine-struck districts of Bengal.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he must attribute the fact that the advocates of Home Rule were denounced as enemies of the Crown, and desirous of destroying the integrity of the Empire, to the general want of information on the subject, and to the circumstance that the question was a new one. The people of this country were always frightened at new things until they got accustomed to them or were educated to their reception. He thought that a question which involved an alteration in the Constitution of England ought only to have been brought forward after due Notice, and certainly not upon the occasion of the Report on the Address to the Crown. But as the matter was before the House he would make some observations on it. With regard to the subject itself, he remembered when Lord Durham, who was the Governor of Canada, reported in favour of responsible government for the Colonies, that his opinion was denounced at the time as a most revolutionary proposal, but it had ultimately been carried into effect. Now every large and self-governing colony in the Empire had a Ministry responsible to the Parliament of the colony. There were, no doubt, difficulties to be overcome in the application of Home Rule to Ireland, but as similar difficulties had been overcome in the case of the Colonies, there was no reason to suppose they were insuperable. It was said that to grant Home Rule to Ireland would be to cause the disruption of the Empire. Yet self-government had been granted to Canada, Australia, &c., without disruption, although these colonies were thousands of miles distant, and the vicinity of Ireland was so far from being a reason against granting self-government, that it was most improbable Ireland would ever wish to be separated from this country. There existed between the two countries a community of interests, of language, and of legal in-
 169
 MR. SPEAKER : The precedent to which the hon. and learned Member referred was of this sort. The matter was referred to the Committee of Privileges. That, I am bound to say, has been the ordinary course. At the same time, it has been found in practice somewhat inconvenient, because the Committee of Privileges is composed of all knights of the shire, all gentlemen of the long robe, and all merchants. It must, therefore, be obvious to the House that the composition of such a Committee would, to say the least, be inconvenient, and it will be for the House to determine for itself whether this matter shall be referred to a Select Committee or to a Committee of Privileges.
 MR. SPEAKER : Will the hon. Member be good enough to bring up the terms of his Motion?
 SIR JOSEPH M'KENNA  said, with reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Tralee (The O'Douoghue), he begged to state that in his opinion that hon. Member himself had been the main cause of the delusion and pretence on this subject. He well remembered on one occasion, when there was a meeting of what were called the Nationalists at the Rotunda in Dublin, the hon. Member was the foremost in fomenting
 171
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that a correspondence was going on between the Board of Customs and the Treasury on this subject, and that no decision had yet been arrived at.
 MR. ALGERNON EGERTON , in moving a Supplementary Estimate of £105,000 to defray the charges incident to the Zanzibar Expedition from March 31, 1873, to March 31, 1874, said, the Vote had not been delivered to hon. Members, and had indeed, been only laid upon the Table of the House within the last few minutes. The Vote was rendered necessary in consequence of the building and fitting out of Her Majesty's ships  London, Flying Fish Ægeria 208
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) rested his defence very much on the fact that the  Dromedary 204 Briton Dromedary
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he was of opinion that the House, as a rule, had been in the habit of voting too large sums on capital account for the Telegraph service. The House had already voted two large sums on that account—one of £7,000,000, and the other of £1,000,000, and as part of the sum now asked for was for buildings and furniture, he thought they ought to know whether it was voted on capital or on revenue account?
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  said, his attention had not been previously called to the subject, but the suggestion should receive consideration.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in moving a Resolution—
 "That it is expedient to make provision for the transfer of the Assets and Liabilities of the Bengal and Madras Civil Service Annuity Funds, and the Annuity Branch of the Bombay Civil Fund, to the Secretary of State for India in Council,"
 MR. DISRAELI : I beg to move that Mr. Cecil Raikes take the chair.
 MR. MONK  said, that, as he understood the Vote, this excess arose in the year 1872–3, and had, therefore, nothing to do with the "Telegraph scandal." At the same time he quite agreed that they ought to have an explanation. He did not want to cast any blame on a late Postmaster General who, for his public services he presumed, had been raised to a seat in the Upper House, still less upon the hon. Member for the University of Edinburgh, who was so short a time in office; but it was evident that there had been great subserviency on the part of those responsible to Parliament to the views and wishes of their subordinates. In consequence of these inverted relations, an enormous sum of money had been spent upon the telegraphs without any authority last, year, and now it seemed that those who were really responsible to the House did not know for what they were responsible. He hoped the noble Lord who had succeeded to the office of Postmaster General (Lord John Manners) would initiate a thorough reform in the administration of the Post Office, and would take care that his subordinates were really his subordinates, and not his masters.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the expenditure was incurred in connection with Sir Bartle Frere's Expedition. The Admiral at Zanzibar and other naval authorities had recommended that a block ship should be placed at Zanzibar with a small factory upon it to make the necessary repairs in ships engaged in the suppression of the slave trade. The  London Flying Fish Ægeria
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the time at which the  Dromedary Dromedary
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that when he left the Admiralty the  London
 MR. HUNT  said, he might then be expected to say a few words; but they must of necessity be very few, because he had been cognizant of that transaction officially a few hours only. He had little to add to what had fallen from his hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre), who had given an account of that transaction, with which he had no reason to find fault. His right hon. and gallant Friend who proposed that Amendment, did so, no doubt, merely to elicit an explanation from his hon. Friend opposite; and he hoped that, after having done that, he would be satisfied without dividing the Committee. The statement of the hon. Member for Heading (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) must have convinced his right hon. and gallant Friend that he was under a misapprehension in thinking that those officers who were his naval advisers in the present Board of Admiralty were responsible for the purchase of the  Dromedary 205 Dromedary
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he was not sorry that the right hon. and gallant Member for Portsmouth (Sir John Hay) had brought the subject of the  Dromedary Dromedary 200 Dromedary Dromedary Briton Dromedary 201 Dromedary Dromedary Briton Dromedary Briton Dromedary Briton 202 Dromedary Dromedary Sarmatian Dromedary Dromedary 203
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON , in moving—
 "(1.) That it is expedient to provide for the payment, out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, of one moiety of the Salary of the Assistant Judge of the Court of the Sessions of the Peace for the county of Middlesex. "(2.) That it is expedient to provide for the payment, out of moneys to he provided by Parliament, of the remuneration to the Deputy of such Assistant Judge, and of any person appointed to preside as Chairman of a second Court. "(3.) That it is expedient to amend the Laws relating to the payment of the Assistant Judge of the Court of the Sessions of the Peace for the County of Middlesex and his Deputy, and the Chairman of the Second Court at such Sessions,' 210
 MR. DILLWYN  thought that question had been properly brought forward and answered most satisfactorily; and they ought now to keep to the business for which they had been called together, somewhat inconveniently, on a Saturday—namely, to consider the vote of £800,000 on account for the Ashantee War, the estimated cost of which was about £900,000. That was a very moderate demand. The expenses had been incurred; and if the Admiralty found that the  Dromedary
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that before the Vote was agreed to they ought to have some explanation as to the reason of these "excesses." Of the total amount, £204,000 was for the Telegraph service. Probably the House would remember the "Telegraph scandal" that occurred Last year, when a large sum was expended in excess of the Votes. What he should now like to know was, whether the present excess had any connection with the former excess, or whether it was an excess that had since arisen?
 MR. LAING  said, that if the House was sitting at the time any extra expenditure was incurred, no time should be lost in laying the Supplemental Estimates before it. To delay them until another Session, and then ask the House to vote such Estimates when it was difficult to examine them with any degree of accuracy, was like shutting the stable door after the steed was stolen. Under the circumstances, however, any discussion on the subject at present would be useless, seeing that the right hon. Gentleman under whom the extra expenditure had been incurred was no
 196
 MR. W. H. SMITH  explained that the item had nothing to do with what was called the "Telegraph scandal," but arose from the fact that the original estimate of £500,000 in 1872–3 was submitted without any details, and upon very slight experience of the cost of the Telegraph service. "He had reason to believe, though he was not responsible for the excess, that with the utmost care a considerable expenditure could not have been foreseen. The suggestion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Kincardine (Sir George Balfour) would receive attention. There had been an understanding that the capital account should, as far as possible, be closed, for railway experience showed that whenever it was open there was a tendency to make use of it. It would be impolitic to charge wires, poles, apparatus, and furniture, which were subject to rapid wear and tear, to capital account.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he was of opinion that as respected the Estimate to meet the excess on the expenditure for the year ending 31st March, 1873, the House ought to have been called upon to make good the deficiency by means of a Supplemental Estimate before the close of the year
 195
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  hoped a clause would be introduced into the Bill similar to that contained in the Bill of last year, to the effect that an account of the sums borrowed should be laid upon the Table at the time they were borrowed, and that periodically a complete and clear Return of the movements in the debts in England and in
 209
 SIR JOHN HAY , in moving the reduction of the Vote by £15,000, said, there was one item in the Vote of Credit to which he wished to draw attention—namely, £310,000 for the transport of troops. He would be the last person in the world to challenge the expenditure on this most glorious expedition, in which everything had been done in a manner which reflected the highest credit upon all concerned. Nov did he object to the cost of transport by the ships of Her Majesty's Navy, which he thought was extremely moderate; but there was included in this item a sum of £15,000 to which he did object, seeing that it was in reality the price paid for the purchase of the  Dromedary Briton Dromedary 199 Megœra
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that after the pledge his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty had given that the  Dromedary 206
 SIR JOHN HAY  inquired whether the vessels had arrived at the station.
 SIR JOHN HAY  inquired whether the expedition referred to was that which had been conducted by Sir Bartle Frere?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , who had given Notice of asking for a Vote of Credit of £900,000 for the expenses of the Expedition into Ashantee, said, he proposed to ask for only £800,000. It was customary when expeditions of this character were in question, and when it was difficult to estimate with precision the exact amount of the expenditure, to take a Vote of Credit for what was supposed to be the total cost of the expedition. In the present instance, the Vote of Credit included expenditure that would be incurred under the different heads of Army expenditure, Naval expenditure, and Colonial expenditure, because this expedition was of a peculiar character, embracing not only some of Her Majesty's Forces, the expense of which would be borne upon the Army and Navy Estimates respectively, but also a separate expedition which
 197
 ADMIRAL SIR WILLIAM EDMONSTONE  said, that when he was stationed, some 14 years ago, on the Coast of Africa, he constantly met that far-famed vessel the  Briton Ancient Briton Dromedary
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that, for a great number of years, Wormwood Scrubbs had been used under a lease as a drill ground for troops, and in order to secure the property, it was purchased subject to the rights of the commoners. Negotiations were now going on with the commoners for the purpose of buying out their rights and giving them adequate compensation. There was no necessity at present to put in force the provisions of the Defence Act; but, if the commoners vexatiously interfered with the use of the place for drilling troops, it might be necessary to put those provisions in operation. As to the common being lost to the public, the object of the purchase was to keep it open, not to close it up.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that he had had no Notice of that Question, but he would say he had every reason to believe no such intention existed.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that when he came into office he found that proceedings had been very far advanced towards effecting a change in the present system of sending young
 233
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the Reports of the Inspectors of Cavalry with respect to the pay of the permanent Staff of the Yeomanry were of an entirely confidential character, and that he could not, therefore, promise to lay them on the Table. The question of detail to which they related was under consideration, and he would soon have to make a statement on the subject, which he hoped would be as satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman as if he had it in his power to give him a different answer on the present occasion.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give no assurance of any kind. If there was one point on which the country had thoroughly made up its mind it was as to the extreme inexpediency of making premature declarations with regard to remissions of taxation. For his own part, he had an opinion, old-fashioned it might be, but strong, that there was really no surplus at all, for as long as there was a debt owing by the country it was only by a fiction that we spoke of a surplus. At any rate, if it was to be held there was really such a thing, let them give honour to whom honour was due by recognizing the man who had established the principle. He referred to Mr. Brummell, who, many years ago, in attempting to account for the ruin of a friend, asked—"What can you expect from a person who has frittered away his fortune in paying his debts?" He thought, however, that in the present case they need not be in any desperate hurry to fritter away their savings, neither were they justified at that period of the Session in calling on the right hon. Gentleman for any explanation whatever.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in moving a similar Vote of Credit on account of the Army Estimates, said, that he hoped to make the usual statement on Monday, though it was impossible to say at present, whether he should have an opportunity of doing so.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in moving "That the Bill be now read the second time," said, that since Friday, when he mentioned that the Secretary of State in Council was prepared to reduce the monthly drafts on the Indian Government by £400,000, it had been determined further to relieve the Indian
 254
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  said, he could not accede to the request of his hon. Friend the Member for Horsham (Sir Seymour Fitzgerald). He had not promised that the Papers would be laid on the Table that day, but had stated that in all probability they would be in the hands of hon. Members. He was sorry they had been delayed; but they were in the hands of the printers, and he was informed that they would be in the hands of hon. Gentlemen tomorrow. It was of the greatest importance that the Bill should be proceeded with, and any remarks which hon. Members had to offer might be made when the House wont into Committee on the subject.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, he thought he had already given most of the information referred to in the Question, although he did not state the probable number of persons who would require relief. According to late statistics from the Viceroy, it was calculated that possibly about
 230
 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE HOUSEHOLD (Lord HENRY SOMERSET)   reported I receive with great satisfaction your loyal and dutiful Address. The affectionate interest you express in the Marriage of the Duke of Edinburgh with the Grand Duchess Marie Alexandrowna of Russia is most gratifying to My feelings. You may be assured that I shall always be ready to co-operate with you in measures which have for their object the promotion of the happiness and welfare of My people.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : The two cables, the property of the Department, between Guernsey and Jersey are broken: it is expected that the repairing ship will roach Jersey next week, when immediate steps will be taken for repairing the cables. The cable between Jersey and France is the property of the Submarine Telegraph Company. I am informed by the Secretary of that Company that so soon as the repairs of the cables between England and Franco which are at present broken are completed, the repair of this cable will be effected.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that the Post Office authorities had general powers, under the Act of Parliament, to register letters, and the charges were not calculated by weight, but were fixed by the authorities, and from time to time were sanctioned by the Treasury. The authorities were also empowered, in order to prevent the robbery of letters containing coin, to register such letters
 234
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  regarded the Motion merely as an attempt to draw from the Chancellor of the Exchequer what were likely to be the main features of his Budget; but he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not be drawn into making any such revelation. The Income Tax was very generally regarded as a war tax;—but this he thought was wrong, though every Chancellor of the Exchequer had to a certain extent looked upon it in that light. When any war arose, or in the case of any emergency, a very large sum could be raised by means of this tax, with very little trouble, and this put immense power in the hands of the Minister. But the evil of the tax was this—the persons who did not pay the tax were very much more numerous than those who did. Now, whatever might be professed to the contrary, a war was popular with the working classes. This might be soon from the fact that wherever the power of a State had fallen into the hands of the people, the nation was found to be speedily involved in a war. The history of every country
 248
 LORD ARTHUR RUSSELL , in seconding the Motion, said, that as he fully concurred in the arguments of his hon. Friend, he should not detain the House; but he could not help saying that he, too, entirely dissented from the proposition to repeal the Income Tax.
 MR. MONK  asked the Postmaster General, Whether the Post Office, with The sanction of the Treasury, is authorized by any Act of Parliament to charge differential rates of postage, not calculated by weight, upon letters according to their contents, with the view of rendering the registration of letters containing money compulsory?
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, during the present Session, any measure for the improvement of the drainage of the River Shannon?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that as it was generally understood that the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford), did not intend to divide the House on the Motion, he would suggest that, as a fitting opportunity for discussing the subject of the Income Tax would shortly be presented in due course, the hon. Gentleman should be allowed to withdraw his Motion and the House to proceed to the other Business on the Paper.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the Committee must feel that the request made by the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty was a reasonable one, and, under the circumstances, he trusted they would not be disposed to enter upon any debate now on the Navy Estimates. It would be quite impossible for the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Admiralty to make a satisfactory statement on this occasion. He trusted, therefore, that hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House would fall in with the right hon. Gentleman's views.
 MR. HUNT  rose to make an appeal to hon. Gentlemen to allow a Vote of Credit for the year ending the 31st of March, 1875, to be taken without requiring him to make the usual statement with regard to the Navy Estimates. His right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury had explained the other day in detail the great difficulty the Government would experience in getting the financial business through during the financial year, and it was only by the indulgence of the House it could possibly be done. It was not in his power to make his statement to the House now, nor would it be before Easter. Therefore, he ventured to deprecate on this occasion anything which would lead to a discussion on the Navy Estimates. He was aware that many hon. Friends on his own side were anxious to have a debate now, but he would earnestly beg of them to pass a Vote of Credit for £2,000,000 without discussion.
 MR. SANDFORD , in rising pursuant to Notice, to call attention to the expediency of extending the exemptions to the payment of the Income Tax, and to move, "That, in the opinion of this House, incomes not exceeding £500 a year should be exempted from the payment of Income Tax," said, he did not think it necessary to defend the principle of exemption, which was co-existent with, and part and parcel of Sir Robert Peel's scheme when he introduced the Income Tax. In that measure exemptions were first proposed upon the basis of graduated incomes. Neither did he think it necessary to point out that the tax bore most oppressively upon the smaller class of incomes. What really had to be considered was simply the practical question of how that oppression could best be removed, and there were three courses open for the accomplishment of this object. First, they might diminish the tax by favouring Schedule D; secondly, they might do away with the tax altogether; and thirdly, they might adopt the suggestion contained in his Resolution. As regarded Schedule D, he would remind the House that income arose from realized capital, from capital and skill combined, and from skill and labour combined, and this would have to be borne well in mind in dealing with the question. Some people said that if they wished in any way to deal with Schedule D they must adopt some such scheme as was proposed by Mr. Wilson, and arrange on a systematic plan the different classes of incomes. It would seem impossible, however, always to trace income to its source, and the only thing to be done was to take it where it was found. Another objection to the removal of Schedule 1) was, that if it were effected they must equally favour the fundholder who lived on income derived from money invested in the funds. These reasons appeared
 235 236
 MR. DODSON  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he will lay upon the Table of the House, Copy of the Letter from the Treasury to Lord Granville, dated January 1874, requesting that information may be obtained as to the system of taxing beer or malt in foreign countries, and of the replies that have up to the present time been communicated to the Troasury?
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Postmaster General, Whether the three Cables uniting Jersey with France and Guernsey are broken; and, when he expects to get Telegraphic Communication restored?
 CAPTAIN DAWSON DAMER  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether the system of sending Sub-lieutenants to Sandhurst after they have done duty with their respective Regiments is to be continued?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that the drainage of the Shannon was one of the many matters which had been under his consideration in the short time that he had had the honour
 229
 MR. BOURKE : It is impossible to make a comparison which shall be exactly accurate between the rates of salary in various offices. The number of clerks in each class varies, the promotion is consequently more rapid in some offices than in others, and the duties assigned to each grade do not in all cases exactly correspond. Taking the Secretaries of States' offices, the salaries of heads of departments in the Foreign Office are exactly the same as in the Home Office, slightly higher than in the War Office, and slightly lower than in the Colonial Office, where there are only three gentlemen holding that grade. The India Office is differently organized, and an accurate comparison is impossible. On the whole, my noble Friend (Lord Derby) does not see any reason to propose to the Treasury an increase of salary, of the heads of Departments, while bearing-willing testimony to the zeal, efficiency, and ability with which the officers of the Foreign Office discharge their duties.
 MR. HANBURY  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Reports of the Inspectors of Auxiliary Cavalry have been received; and, if so, whether they recommend the readjustment of the pay and allowances of the permanent staff of the Yeomanry; whether the Government intend in any case to make some such readjustment; and, whether he will lay the said Reports upon the Table of the House?
 MR. LAING  said, he also was anxious to take that early opportunity of expressing the strong objection he entertained, in common with many hon. Members on the Liberal side of the House, to the proposal which had been made for the total abolition of the Income Tax. It was not with the least desire to force the hand of the right
 237 238 239 240 241 d d d d 242 243 244 245 246
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that the Metropolitan Common of 170 acres, known as Wormwood Scrubs, is likely to be lost to the commoners and public through the application of the provisions of the Defence Act in the compulsory purchase by the War Department of the commoners rights?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked, Whether there was any intention of building on it?
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  protested against the specific alteration now proposed in the tax, for, first, the system of exemptions was nothing but confiscation under another name, and, secondly, that system did not remove or alleviate any one of the objections made to the Income Tax—did not make it less inquisitorial, distinguish between precarious and fixed incomes, or diminish the temptation to fraud. At the same time he regretted to find the hon. Member for the Orkneys (Mr. Laing) so absorbed by his desire to repeal the taxes on locomotion that he was unable to appreciate the strong objections to this tax. A great objection to the Income Tax was, that it pressed unequally in its operation, and affected the small trader and persons with uncertain incomes in an oppressive manner. The artist, for instance, with a good income, might have his hand palsied to-morrow; yet he was taxed just at the same rate as the man deriving the same income from land. The proposal to alter the Income Tax, as it affected persons with small incomes, did not do away altogether with the objections to it. One of the inherent objections to the Income Tax was the manner of the assessment, which it was considered led to the promotion of fraud; and in some places surveyors in their assiduity, had surcharged persons to a considerable extent. That was a grave objection to the manner of assessing the tax. This was a question which should be dealt with broadly, and those who supposed that the great middle class of the country were not determined either to remove the objectionable features of the Income Tax, or to have the tax abolished altogether, greatly misunderstood their feeling on the subject. He could not help thinking that the Government would make a mistake if they followed at all the very bad advice given to them by some of the party now sitting
 247
 MR. GOURLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, To state to the House the localities in the Bengal Presidency, together with their extent and populations, now threatened with or suffering from famine, the means adopted both by the present and late Governments for the alleviation of the distress resulting or likely to result there from, and the probable number of persons who will require relief; and, if it be intended to instruct the Viceroy of India to adopt means for promoting and establishing a complete system of irrigation in the rice-growing districts now under British rule?
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, on the contrary, he trusted the noble Lord would proceed at once with the Bill, without delay, as it was of the greatest consequence that what it was proposed should be done for India should be expedited as much as possible, and that that great dependency should see there was no delay on the part of England in aiding, by funds borrowed in England, to feed the people of the famine-struck districts. The Papers relating to the measures of Government to feed the people would follow as a matter of course.
 SIR HENRY WOLFF  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Heads of Departments in the Foreign Office are paid on a lower scale than gentlemen holding similar appointments in other Government Offices of equal rank; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Government is prepared to improve the position of these public servants?
 SIR JAMES LAWRENCE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchquer, If it is the intention of the Government to take into consideration the Report of the Select Committee on the Civil Service Writers dated 30th July 1873?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he had had so many things to attend to that he had not yet been able to give his attention as fully as he could wish to that subject; but the Government were paying attention not only to that question, but to other questions affecting the Civil Service, and they hoped to institute an inquiry under the directions of the Treasury which would go into that subject, and also into other cognate questions of equal importance to the Civil Service.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that if the right hon. Gentleman would move for the Papers in question there would be no objection to their production.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the good sense of the House had so entirely anticipated the answer he had to give that he need scarcely say anything. He would merely remind hon. Members of Talleyrand's observation when some Friend said to him, "I hope I shall not be indiscreet in asking you a question;" to which he replied, "There can be no indiscretion in a question, but there may be in the answer." That would be his answer, if he were to say anything on the subject; and therefore he would merely add that he thanked all those hon. Gentlemen who had taken part in the discussion, for the contributions they had made to the Budget.
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  rose to make an appeal to the noble Lord the Under Secretary for India not to bring on the second reading of the EAST INDIA LOAN BILL that evening. He looked at the Indian Famine with great anxiety, but, like other hon. Gentlemen, he had carefully avoided expressing any opinion on the subject hitherto, because the information which had been received was not only imperfect, but contradictory. If the Bill were once read a second time, there would be no fitting opportunity of offering such remarks on the question as he should desire to do. It might be said that a specific Motion might be made with regard to it, but
 249
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the temporary rank did not invert
 266
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he believed the building would be commenced by the 1st of June. The plans would be ready for the contractors by the 1st of May.
 MR. WALPOLE  asked the hon. Member for Sheffield, Whether he would for the present withdraw his Notice of Motion with reference to the Report of the Science Commission on National Museums, and bring it forward at a later period of the Session, it being a subject upon which it might be thought a longer Notice should be given.
 MR. GOLDSMID , in seconding the Motion, repeated what he had ventured to assert on former occasions, that there was no Legislative Assembly in the world which kept such disreputable hours as the House of Commons. If they looked at the Assemblies of France, Prussia, Austria, and Italy, they found them finishing their legislative work at some hour between 6 and 10, except when there was a prolonged debate on
 273 274
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN , in rising to move as an Amendment—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the time allotted by the rides of the House to the consideration of the Bills introduced by private Members is already insufficient for the due discussion of the same, and ought not to be further restricted," 275 "And such trust deeds, together with the names of the trustees for the time being, shall be enrolled in the High Court of Chancery." 276 277
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  said, that if the House would permit him he would withdraw his Amendment. ["No."]
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the introduction of this Bill; but he was glad to find that the hon. Member proposed to defer its second reading at all events for a considerable time. He should like to say, as there had been some misconception upon the matter, that the first moment that the most urgent business which the Government had to deal with was disposed of, he had brought before their attention what he thought was the most pressing matter connected with the particular Department of which he had charge—namely, this question of the disputes which had arisen as to the working of two Acts of Parliament that had lately been passed, and the Government took up that matter at the first possible opportunity. He should like also to state that the way in which they found matters was this: A Royal Commission had been issued which had accumulated a vast amount of facts, and upon these facts Parliament had legislated. Two Acts of Parliament had been passed regulating the relations between master and servant; but complaint had been made that serious differences of opinion had arisen amongst large classes of Her Majesty's subjects with reference to the working of these Acts of Parliament. There was no information that he could place his hands upon, in the Home Office or elsewhere, to show the particular eases as to which complaints had arisen, and it became the duty of the Government to see how best they could inform themselves as to the matters in dispute. The working of the Law of Conspiracy having been questioned, it was necessary before legislating that they should have the advice of some of Her Majesty's Judges, and that the Judges should obtain information on which to give advice. The Government, therefore, thought the best way was to appoint a Royal Commission of perfectly independent men to consider what were the precise points in dispute, and to ascertain the facts. The Government had undertaken to do their duty, and hoped to receive the Report of the Committee in such time as to enable them to legislate upon the matter during the present Session.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he thought it would be better to adopt the Rule as it had come down from the last Parliament, leaving for future consideration the question whether the modification just suggested should be adopted next year. The result of the modification would simply be that the good nature of Members would end at an earlier period than it did now, and Bills would not be allowed to go through Committee. The Rule seemed to him to work very
 282
 MR. MUNDELLA , in reply, said, that when he gave the Notice it was to the effect that the Motion should be considered on an early day, and he was surprised to see it on the Notice Paper for that evening. It would be exceedingly
 270
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Member for Denbighshire (Mr. Osborne Morgan) would withdraw his Amendment and accept the suggestion made by the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), and approved by the Prime Minister. He knew many cases in which the Rule in question had worked very injuriously, and "squaring" led to bad legislation. In one instance an Irish Member introduced a Bill which would enable money to be borrowed at 3A per cent to build mansions in Ireland. He put a Notice on the Paper of his intention to move that the Bill be read a second time in three months. What did the hon. Member do? He gave Notice of an Amendment to a Bill of his (Mr. Mundella's), and then went off to Ireland for three weeks. In another case a Bill of his for the protection of children was treated in the same way; an hon. Member gave Notice of an Amendment, and then went off to Wales. The maintenance of the Rule as it stood would cause great inconvenience and irritation to hon. Members; it would
 283
 MR. MUNDELLA , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal "The Criminal Law Amendment Act (1871)," said, having regard to the fact that Her Majesty's Government had appointed a Royal Commission to inquire into the subject, and that they had promised to legislate upon it during the present Session, he was willing to postpone the second reading of the Bill until the 10th of June. Before that time they could hardly expect the Commission to make their Report, and after that time legislation might be regarded as impracticable.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that, generally speaking, he was very little disposed to curtail the privileges of private Members. This question had been considered by Committees, and often by the House. In the Committee of 1871, of which he
 281
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY , in reply, said, that three kinds of Reports were laid on the Table of the House every year by the Board of Trade relating to railway accidents. The Reports of the Inspectors of every accident as it occurred were laid on the Table, of which there were a large number last Session; there was presented also a  résumé
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that having taken a very active part in the deliberations of the Committee on Public Business last appointed by the House, it was not likely that he should now oppose the Rule. He thought, however, it was doubtful whether it ought to be brought into operation very early in the Session. So sensible was he of the evil which the Rule was originally intended to obviate, that he should not oppose his hon. Friend the Member for Leicestershire (Mr. Heygate) on the present occasion; but he thought the subject-matter of the Amendment ought to be treated separately. The hon. and learned Member (Mr. Osborne Morgan) had cited the instance of a Bill he himself introduced. It was a measure for the purchase of sites for religious worship. He (Mr. Newdegate) moved a clause providing for the enrolment of the deeds, and the House sanctioned it; the House of Lords threw out the clause for enrolment, and the hon. and learned Member accused him of being asleep the next Session when the Bill was re-introduced, because he did not insist on the insertion of the same clause. The hon. and learned Member gave him no credit, however, for having yielded to the decision of the House of Lords. He was by no means asleep; but he thought the subject of enrolment ought to be dealt with by another Bill. Certainly it could not be said of the hon. and learned Member himself,  aliquando dormitat
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. and learned Member for Denbighshire (Mr. Osborne Morgan) seemed determined that he should not agree with him. Unfortunately for the hon. and learned Member, he did not agree with him in the substance of his Amendmont; but as he (Mr. Newdegate) also agreed with the Motion before the House he could not vote for the Amendment in supercession of the original Motion.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Two volumes have been presented of these Census Returns, the last on the 31st July, 1873. The delay in the publishing of the third and remaining volume has been the subject of correspondence between the Home Secretary and the authorities in Scotland, and we are informed that the delay has been duo to throe causes. In the first place, the preparation of certain special Returns from the Education Board under the provisions of the Education Act; then a large amount of matter being given in the form of remarks on the result of the Census, in addition to that contained in the Report, applicable to the Census of 1861; and in the third place, the Superintendent of the Census Office has been ill. Every exertion is now being made to complete the work, and it is hoped that this will be accomplished in the month of May.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : The House having only met for business on Thursday, there has not yet been time for maturely considering what measures relating to the interests of Scotland can with advantage be introduced at present. I may say, however, that I think the interests of Scotland shall not be neglected; but hon. Gentlemen must allow Her Majesty's Government to choose the proper time, having reference to the other Business of the House, for the introduction of such measures.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : My answer was intended to cover the first Question, and I can only say that an hon. Member (Mr. Vans Agnew) has already given Notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a Bill on the subject of hypothec.
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to put a Question to the President of the Board of Trade as to the Reports of the Inspectors of that Department on Railway Accidents. The House had those Reports before it down to the month of August last. Would all the subsequent Reports be laid on the Table, in order that they might be available for the discussion on railway accidents of which Notice had been given?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he saw no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion evidently favoured by the general feeling of the House. His hon. Friend (Mr. Dillwyn) had suggested a modification which the Prime Minister had very judiciously accepted, and his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Osborne Morgan) proposed to withdraw his Amendment in its favour. There appeared to be an objection to such withdrawal; but, if so, it could be negatived, and then, on the Main Question being put, his hon. Friend could propose the proviso as an addendum.
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been called to the measures adopted in Natal in connection with the suppression of the late Kaffir outbreak; and, whether there is any objection to lay upon the Table any Correspondence with the Lieutenant Governor and others on the subject?
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  believed, as far as he could ascertain the sentiments of hon. Gentlemen in his immediate neighbourhood, that they were inclined to support the modification recommended by the Prime Minister; but he hoped the hon. and learned Member for Denbighshire (Mr. Osborne Morgan) would first withdraw his Amendment. As far as he could judge, the Prime Minister was making a concession to private Members which ought to be accepted. With respect to the general question, he thought a great deal too much had been made of the interests of private Members; because, as a matter of fact, they had arrived at a state of things in this country when the Government must reflect the public opinion, and the measures introduced by the Government were those measures upon which the
 285
 MR. MORRIS  asked the Secretary of State for War, When it is likely the building of the new Barracks at Galway will be commenced?
 MR. J. BARCLAY  asked the Lord Advocate. The cause of the delay in publishing the Census Returns for Scotland, and when they will be issued?
 MR. J. BARCLAY : The Lord Advocate has scarcely answered the first Question I have put to him.
 MR. J. BARCLAY  asked the Lord Advocate, Whether he intends, on behalf of the Government, to introduce a measure abolishing agricultural hypothec in Scotland; and, if he is prepared to inform the House what are the "other measures relating to her (Scotland's) interests," referred to in Her Majesty's Speech?
 MR. J. LOWTHER , in reply, said, the attention of the Government had been called to the subject, and the Correspondence commenced by their predecessors was now being carried on by them. It would be of no use producing the Correspondence until it was complete; but he hoped shortly to be able to lay upon the Table extracts from it.
 MR. DODSON  said, he would not discuss the practices of foreign assemblies. He would only say that if the majority were going to follow the precedent of the Polish Diet, and kill the minority, he hoped they would, at least,
 280 vigilentibus non dormientibus leges subveniunt post hoc propter hoc
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he thought that there was no doubt whatever that the words could be added. All that had been determined by the House was that the original Resolution should stand part of the Question before the House. It need not be the whole Question, and though he acknowledged the proviso was rather awkwardly framed, this had resulted from leave to withdraw the original Amendment having been refused.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the simple question was, not whether the time for private legislation should be restricted, but whether the little time available for business after half-past 12 should be used or wasted. Those who had to do with the little hours knew that half a dozen Members might move the adjournment, and that one or two hours might be pleasantly spent in walking through the lobbies. Any man could always get three or four men, as wicked as himself, to act with him. That was sheer waste of time; whereas under this Rule what was done after half-past 12 really advanced business. He thought it would make little difference whether the question was to be settled by a Standing Order or a Sessional Order. What they wanted was to save time, and he believed the mode proposed would have that effect,
 MR. DILLWYN  then rose to second
 278
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, he found the question had been fully considered by his predcessors in office, and on more than one occasion an undertaking had been entered into by them to initiate legislation upon it; but he must fairly say he had not had time to consider it himself. He would not be prepared, at any rate for some few weeks, to say what course he would take on the subject; but if within a reasonable time he was not able to bring in a Bill, he should not trouble the House with a measure which would be introduced at too late a period of the Session to afford an opportunity of its passing into law.
 MR. P. J. SMYTH  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it was his intention to introduce this Session a Bill for the Improvement of Labourers' Dwellings in Ireland; and, if so, about what period of the Session such Bill might be looked for?
 MR. HEYGATE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he will state to the House the general result of the replies given by bankers and others to the inquiries addressed to them by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the advisability of continuing (or otherwise) the coinage of half-crowns and florins?
 MR. HEYGATE , in rising to move—
 "That, except for a Money Bill, no Order of the Day or Notice of Motion be taken after half-past twelve of the clock at night, with respect to which Order or Notice of Motion a Notice of Opposition or Amendment shall have been printed on the Notice Paper, or if such Notice of Motion shall only have been given the next previous day of sitting, and objection shall he taken when such Notice is called," 271 272
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he felt it impossible to accept the suggestion approved by the high authority of the Prime Minister. It would entirely emasculate a Resolution which had been approved by the Committee of 1871, which had worked well for two years, and which had found acceptance on both sides of the House. The fact was, instead of limiting the operation of the Rule, he had been pressed to go in a very different direction.
 MR. WAIT  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether the temporary rank of Captain in the Army, to which Adjutants of Auxiliary Forces have recently been gazetted, inverts the order of seniority hitherto in force; and, whether such temporary rank gives to such Adjutants while serving regimentally the command of the Captains of their respective Regiments or Battalions?
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, in the event of the Bank Holidays Act being extended, he would consider the
 269
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  remarked that no private Member could pass a Bill which was opposed with anything like strength. They had tried the operations of the Act as it stood, and had been made aware of its stringency, and if they tried a modification they would be better able to form a judgment upon the matter.
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked whether such a proviso was in Order? The House had
 286
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, it seemed to be assumed that all the bad
 284
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the House had declared that the words proposed by the hon. Member for Leicestershire (Mr. Heygate) should stand part of the Question. It was quite open to any hon. Member to propose the addition of words to the Resolution.
 MR. SPEAKER : Does the hon. Member propose to second the Amendment? If not, he is out of Order.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Leicestershire (Mr. Heygate) would take the sense of the House upon the proposition, because he (Mr. Mowbray) believed that great evil and much injury to health were consequent upon transacting business at such very late hours. The Rule was one on which all who were Members of the last Parliament had abundant experience. They had been recommended by the hon. Member for Chester (Mr. Dodson) to trust to the good sense of Members. Some years ago, when they had Mr. Brotherton in the House, and he endeavoured to enforce a 12 o'clock rule, they were also told not to tie their hands, but to trust to the good sense of the House. But when Mr. Brotherton was gone, and they came to rely on that vague thing, the good sense of the House, it broke down. They had experience of late hours in 1869 and 1870, and found how prejudicial those prolonged sittings were to the health of Members; while, on the other hand, the Rule now proposed had been sanctioned by a large majority of the Committee in 1871, and found to work satisfactorily in 1872 and 1873. He would point out to his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government that the modification which he approved would have a very sensible effect in limiting the operation of the Rule; and it should be remembered that the interpretation put on the Rule by the authorities of the House had already very considerably restricted its operation. It was at first very generally understood that the Rule would operate against Amendments in Committee; but it was decided that once the Speaker left the Chair, it would not apply to such Amendments. And now, if hon. Members were not allowed to take an objection to the Report or to the third reading, the Rule would be efficacious only in two instances—the second reading and the Motion for going into Committee. He hoped, therefore, the House would affirm a Rule which had been found to be efficacious, which had contributed to the health and convenience of Members, and had been tried and worked satisfactorily for the two past years.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to promise that this should be done.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The late Government directed questions to be put to a number of bankers with reference to the circulation of florins and half-crowns, suggesting those three courses:—Either that florins should continue to be coined and half-crowns withdrawn, or that half-crowns should continue to be coined and florins withdrawn, or that both should continue to be coined. Answers were received from 302 bankers to the following effect:—Of the 302 bankers, 46 reported their opinion in favour of the circulation of florins only; 63 in favour of the circulation of half-crowns only; and 193 in favour of the circulation of both concurrently. In consequence of that the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, just before leaving office, put an announcement in the newspapers that the issue of half-crowns would be resumed, and some, as he was informed, would be ready for issue in about a month.
 COLONEL BERESFORD  said, that at the last School Board election in Southwark the greatest order prevailed, and there was no difficulty in the working classes recording their votes; but at the Parliamentary Election a large number of working men were prevented from polling, by the fact that the distance to the polling-booths was so great that they could not come up during the dinner hour. He suggested that the operation of the Bill should be restricted to the Metropolis.
 DR. CAMERON  said, that as one of the Representatives of a constituency of 52,000, he might be allowed to say a few words on the subject before the House. When he presented himself as a candidate for the suffrages of the electors of Glasgow, there was no topic in regard to which he found anything like so wide-spread interest as was manifested on that they were discussing, and this was conclusive proof to him that, in large constituencies at least, there was a very general desire for the extension of the hours of voting. It seemed to him that the objections which had been raised to the proposal of his hon. Friend, the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke), might be divided into three headings, like everything else. In the first place, there was the abstract objection to tinkering up recent legislation. It must be remembered, however, that the legislation on this point had taken place without the benefit of the experience which the country had since had. Nor did it appear to him that the substitution of 8 for 4 would lead to such a terrible complication of the laws of the country as seemed to be imagined. The next objection raised was on the ground of expense, but he confessed it appeared to him that, so far from necessarily increasing the expenses, the alteration would in many cases tend to decrease them. As a proof of this, he stated that in Glasgow at the last General Election, the Returning Officer, actuated by the laudable desire to make known the results as promptly as possible, consulted the various candidates beforehand, in
 306
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that if the proposed change were introduced it would be effected against the entire current of recent legislation, which had been in the direction of abridging the hours for taking the poll. As to the question of light, he hoped that if the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea were agreed to he would propose that elections should be held at the time of full moon.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I rise, Sir, to say that on behalf of the Government I shall oppose the second reading of this Bill; and I shall do so, in the first place, because I find that the Bill, as presented to us, means one thing, while the object of the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke) is totally different. I do not think it is fair to ask the House on a matter of this kind to vote for a Bill of simply one clause—from which, therefore, we cannot drop any clauses as suggested by the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke)—and that clause affecting not only all boroughs large and small, but also the counties in England, Ireland, and Scotland. Yet with the general Bill before you, to which you are asked to give a second reading, the hon. Baronet states all that he wants is to affect two or three of the larger boroughs in England, and more especially the metropolis. I think that is not a fair way of treating the House. I wish to call the attention of the House to the fact that this matter has been discussed by it already at great length in two successive Sessions of the late Parliament, and that on the first occasion this proposal was rejected by a majority of 239 to 60, while in the second year, 1872, when the Ballot Bill passed into law, a proposal of this kind was rejected by 242 against 66. Having read those debates, I have listened attentively for any fresh arguments, but I have failed to hear any argument which was not pressed upon the attention of the House in the last Parliament. I expected that the hon. Baronet would have laid before us statements from several towns, and, instead of confining himself to general terms, would have given us details of cases in which this law has worked hardship. I should have thought, if there had been such cases, that we should at all events have had Petitions from some boroughs; but we have heard of none, except one
 313 314
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was of opinion that to refer this Bill to a Committee would be a mere waste of time. He thought further that it would be inconvenient to adopt that course, as to decide to what places it should, and to what places it should not, be applied, would be inconsistent with the Bill in its present form. He agreed with his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department that they had
 317
 MR. ALDERMAN M'ARTHUR , to show that a grievance was felt by the working classes themselves, pointed out that a
 312
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, his experience was entirely at variance with that of his hon. and learned Colleague. That might, perhaps, be accounted for by the fact that his hon. and learned Colleague had the advantage of having his supporters conveyed to the poll in cabs and carriages, whereas his opponents had not. Now, any candidate who employed cabs in the fare of the provisions of the
 304
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he only rose to mention that, as it had been distinctly denied over and over again that the working classes had shown any desire to have the hours for voting extended, his experience had been in an opposite direction. Over and over again meetings had been held on the subject, and he believed that in the City he represented (Edinburgh) the working classes were all but unanimous—if, indeed, they were not quite unanimous—in regard to it. It had been said by hon. Gentlemen on the other side, and by an hon. and learned Member below him (Mr. Roebuck), that the use of cabs made the grievance very small, but there were many constituencies which respected the law which that House had made, and which did not use cabs. The constituency which he had the honour to represent had candidates of four different shades of opinion, and all these respected the law, not a cab being vised during the election. They found, moreover, that out of a constituency of under 25,000, 19,000 voters went to the poll themselves. It might be said this showed there were no great difficulties with the present hours, but great hardships were suffered by those who did go to the poll. They lost their wages, they inconvenienced their employers, and thus there were hardships suffered by those who voted as well as by those who did not vote. His hon. Friend the Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney) said they ought to multiply the polling-places. He
 310
 MR. HERMON  said, that in the last Parliament he advocated an extension of the hour, but his experience during the late Election had convinced him that there was no real necessity for it. He was opposed by a working man's candidate, and not a word of complaint from him against the present law did he hear. The polling was a very dull affair—though plenty of time was given to all to record their votes; and it should be known that in the towns in Lancashire the electors were a very enthusiastic body of people, and anxious to record their votes. He held it to be the duty of the workman, when he had the franchise conferred upon him, to make some sacrifice, in order to discharge the responsibility that attached to him, as a citizen, in recording his vote. [Mr. MUNDELLA: Oh, oh!] The hon. Member for Sheffield might say "Oh," but that was no argument. The men working in the large factories in the north were not locked out, if they absented themselves for a short time.
 MR. E. JENKINS  wished first to refer to the rather extraordinary argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman below him the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), who said that because the Ballot was a tentative measure, they ought not to make it more tentative. Supposing for a moment there was anything in this, it appeared to him that they might go on making it more and more tentative in order to see if they could not make it more effective; but he regarded the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman as of no force, for this reason, that this was not a question of the Ballot. It was simply a question of
 307 employés employés. 308 309 employés
 MR. J. S. HARDY  should oppose the second reading, not because he had any fear of the working classes, but because he found that the Bill was introduced by hon. Members who represented an extreme section in that House. He believed that in the late Parliament it was almost a matter of ridicule if they ventured to mention the Conservative working man, but the late Elections proved that Conservative working men could find time to give the votes bestowed upon them. Hon. Gentlemen opposite were no doubt dissatisfied with the result of the late Election, and therefore it was only natural they should support some such measure as this on the ground that their friends had not had time to vote.
 MR. ANDERSON  supported the second reading of the Bill. He should like to say one or two words with regard to the objections which had been urged against it by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. Member said that the number of voters who took part in the last General Election had not diminished as compared with 1868, but had increased to a larger extent than might have been expected from the increased constituencies. That, however, was only a negative kind of argument; because it did not prove that if those facilities asked for in this Bill had been in existence there might not have been a still larger number of electors who would have recorded their votes. And the hon. Member took no notice of the difficulty under which many of those who recorded their votes did so. The hardship of the present state of things greatly affected the artizan classes of the country, and their complaint was that if they were not exactly precluded from voting altogether, yet they had to record their votes under exceptionally difficult circumstances. They must either vote during the dinner hour, when they might find the polling places so crowded that they could not get in, or they must lose half-a-day's pay by absenting themselves from work in order to poll. Now, he contended that it was unfair to expect any class, and especially the poorer class, to forfeit half-a-day's pay in order to record their votes. The hon. Gentleman said, "increase the number of polling places;" and at the same time he objected to the hours being extended, on the ground that it would entail additional expense. Well, would not the increase of polling-places also involve additional expense? To extend the hours of polling did not necessarily involve the increase of the staff, but to increase the number of polling-places must necessarily do so. It was in the experience of all hon. Members that, the Returning Officers' expenses, under the Ballot, had been greatly heavier than before, and the reason for that was, that the Ballot Act had so largely added to the number of polling places. The hon. Gentleman said if they extended the hours of polling they would heighten the excitement of an election. For his part he thought it would have the very opposite effect, and in proof of this he would quote the case of his own constituents. The polling in Glasgow terminated
 296
 MR. G. BROWNE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a Bill this Session dealing with the question of Union Rating in Ireland?
 MR. BRUEN  said, it was admitted by the supporters of the Bill that the small borough constituencies ought to be excluded from its operation. Even supposing the alleged grievance had been proved to exist, still they were bound, in his opinion, to consider whether there were not other classes of electors besides the working man who equally suffered and whose claims ought to be recognized. For instance, the non-resident electors were put to great expense and trouble in recording their votes. They ought to consider all the grievances together, and not go into this piecemeal legislation.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, that during the last Session of Parliament he had spoken against the extension of the polling hours to 8 o'clock', and he should equally oppose the present measure having the same object in view, unless the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke) would agree to a considerable modification of its principle; for it seemed to him (Sir Henry James) that the evils of an extension of the hours of polling, if it were general in its application, would be great and conspicuous. Those evils included a great increase of expense and greater facilities for corruption. If the voting were continued after nightfall, there would probably be greater difficulty in maintaining proper supervision in the polling-booths, and relays of staff would be required, while an additional number of horses and carriages would also be necessary. Every hon. Member who represented a county or a borough would feel that the practical inconvenience of such an alteration would be so great as to render its general adoption very un-advisable.
 301 302
 MR. J. HOLMS  said, that so far as his constituency (Hackney) was concerned, the present hours were very inconvenient—indeed, it was not possible for many of the best class of artizans to vote, for they left home for the City before 8 A.M., and did not return till after 6 P.M. He spoke of porters and packers—the very  élite
 MR. LOCKE  was of opinion that while in a great number of boroughs the Bill would be found unnecessary, it was most desirable that the proposed change should be made in the interest of large and populous constituencies. Any clauses of the Bill which were not in accordance with the views of the hon. and learned Member for Taunton (Sir Henry James) could be dropped out of the Bill. He was of opinion that more polling-places were required quite as much as extended hours. In the borough of Southwark, (bough there were upwards of 20,000 electors, there were only eight polling-places, and in many cases the voter resided at a great distance. Without some alteration, it would be impossible for all the electors to record their votes. He should vote for the second reading of the Bill, though he thought it capable of Amendment in Committee.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Henry James) had adduced an admirable argument against the present Bill. His hon. and learned Friend would throw out that Bill, and bring in something else to remedy the present state of the law. Therefore, he would suggest that his hon. and learned Friend should join them in throwing out that Bill, and then if the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke) chose to do anything to amend the law, and took a proper course for doing it they would support him. The passing of the Ballot Act was a great political experiment. Parliament thought so, and therefore they determined that the Act should only last eight years, that it should therefore be tried at two General Elections before its principles were fully decided upon, and that they should learn by experience what further alterations might be required in its provisions. Now, the present Bill was not that sort of cautious mode of proceeding. Englishmen carefully made political changes. They did it with precaution, they did it always tentatively, they took care when any change was made that there should be no great jar which could possibly be avoided. That course they pursued in this case, and they determined that they would see how the Ballot Act worked before they altered it. But the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea broke in and said—"I am not for that, I want immediate change. Something has gone wrong; I don't like it, and therefore I will come to Parliament to endeavour to induce them to depart from their cautious and regular mode of proceeding, and not to regard experience as worth anything, but to take my statement that reform is needed." Well, if Parliament were to take the hon. Baronet's personal experience, he begged to offer them his own. He represented one of the largest constituencies in the North of England. The number on its electoral roll was 35,000, of whom 25,000 voted; and he never heard in the whole election contest any complaint made by the working men. In
 303
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he had found at the late Election that the working classes, as a rule, had every facility afforded them for voting at any hour they liked, and that they almost invariably took advantage of this privilege at the earliest possible time. He contended that a fuller trial ought to be given to the existing law before it was altered, and he considered that one result of an extension of the hours of polling would be a doubling of the staff of officials.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : No.
 MR. T. E. SMITH  believed that the present limitation of the hours of polling was inconvenient to many of the best class of artizans in Newcastle, where probably two or three thousand more
 305
 MR. THOMPSON  supported the Bill. A great number of his constituents were employed in mines, and therefore had no opportunity of recording their votes without incurring considerable loss of time. At the recent Election, however, almost all of them recorded their votes, although such a proceeding involved the loss of a day's work. He might mention that to enable those working men to go to the poll the mines stopped working; and what was the result? It was well-known that there had been frightful riots during those Elections, arising
 311
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that having had charge of the Ballot. Bill while it passed through the House, he wished to make one or two remarks. He desired before they went to a division to correct a prevalent misapprehension from which it would appear his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary himself was not altogether free. It seemed to be thought that the Bill of the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke) was framed with a view-to amend the Ballot Act, but, as a matter of fact, there was no such proposal before the House, for there was nothing whatever in that Act with regard to the hours of polling. It was quite true that at the time when the Ballot Bill was under the consideration of the House some hon. Members advocated the change now proposed, and there was a discussion on the subject for several hours, but the result was that nothing was decided about the hours of polling, and that the law was left in that respect just as it had previously stood. It appeared to him that they ought to deal with this question purely on its merits, and ought not to mix it up with any considerations as to whether this was a fitting time to open up the subject of the
 315 316 employés
 MR. RATHBONE  said, he must at once deny that the object of the Bill or its supporters was to give their own party an advantage. He would contend that the extension of the polling hour would increase the power of the popular party for the time being, and that therefore the hon. and gallant Member for Sussex (Colonel Barttelot.) and his Friends should not object to the Bill, for they would probably have an increased majority on their side of the House. He also wished to point out that, although the employment of cabs by candidates to bring up voters was prohibited by the present law against corrupt practices, yet at the late General Election that
 298
 MR. R. SMYTH , as an Irish county Member, although he did not think the change was required in the case of such a constituency as he represented, should vote for the second reading of the Bill on the understanding that certain modifications were made in it in Committee, in the manner suggested by the hon. and learned Member for Taunton (Sir Henry James.)
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE , in moving that the Bill he now read a second time, said: The subject which I bring before the House to-day is one which has often engaged the attention of Parliament, and divisions were taken upon it both in the House of Commons and the House of Lords in the years 1870, 1871, and 1872. We have now before us the experience of the first General Election under the Ballot, and we have also a fact to deal with, to which I will presently allude,
 291 292 293
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  said, he would willingly accede to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), that in the event of the Bill being read a second time it should be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. GOLDNEY , in moving as an Amendment, "That the Bill be read a second time this day six months," said, the question had, is his opinion, been adequately discussed by the late Parliament, for it had been repeatedly brought before it by the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles W. Dilke), but the House had always settled that the hours should remain as at present. He did not think the hon. Member had added much to what had then been advanced, nor had he made out anything like a case in support of the change which he advocated. The chief contention of the hon. Member was, that sufficient facilities were not given to the working men to exercise their privileges as voters. That was an erroneous contention. The fact was, that after an election some persons always attempted to account for the course of events, and that out-of-doors, some, who wondered why certain candidates had been returned and others not, had advocated an alteration in the machinery of voting. He had had an opportunity of looking over the late Election Returns for the borough of Chelsea, and he found that, taking the numbers of the highest successful and the highest unsuccessful candidate, 14,500 persons voted, as compared with 11,500 in 1868. [Sir CHARLES DILKE: Out of 25,000.] That fact showed that the proportion of voters on the register who voted had considerably increased since 1868—to the amount of 25 per cent—and that was also I he case at Liverpool
 294
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that as the Ballot Act was only a temporary and experimental measure, they had better try the experiment a little longer before they set about altering it. They were very much too fond in that House, if an Act did not carry out all the objects which its promoters expected from it, of immediately bringing in another Act to amend it next year. Thus, by degrees, the law became so complicated and perplexed as to be a scandal to the country, as had been remarked by the Judges over and over again. Scarcely an Act was passed which did not inconvenience somebody in some particular, and they always found an hon. Member taking a personal view of it, and coming down to ask that it should be instantly altered for his own convenience, or that of his constituency. He objected to the Bill now submitted for various reasons. An attempt had been made to treat lightly the objection that the polling would, in the event of an extension of hours, be carried on after nightfall, His opinion was that that was a very grave objection, for with regard to it, one point had been very much overlooked—it had been supposed that boroughs were nothing but large cities. No doubt, in a large city there was not much difference in the streets
 299 300
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  hoped the House would agree to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney), because it would be an unfortunate and mischievous thing at that early period after the passing of the Ballot Act to re-open the question. Further time was wanted to see whether that Act really required improvement; and if they assented to the second reading of this Bill, no doubt they would soon find that plenty of other grievances under the Ballot Act would be brought before the House. That subject was carefully discussed in the last Parliament, and three divisions were taken on that very question—the first on a proposal to insert 0, instead of 8 o'clock in the morning, which was rejected by 242 to 66; the second, on the proposal of the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke), to extend the hours to 8 in the evening, which was rejected by 206 to 98; and the third on a proposal to fix 5 o'clock P.M. for closing the poll in boroughs, which was rejected by 157 to 93. Every point now raised was raised in those former discussions, as would be seen from the reports of their debates. The hon. Baronet had failed to show that any inconvenience had been created, or that men had been unable to record their votes; or—what was an important point—that in instances where votes wore kept back till a late hour, the voters did not in some instances hang
 297
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that since that Question had been put upon the Paper, Notice had been given by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Torrens) that he would introduce a Bill on Monday next on that subject. The Government, as the House were aware, had undertaken to deal with
 337
 MR. E. T. SMITH  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to move for the appointment of a Committee on Indian Finance to continue the investigations of that which sat during the last Parliament?
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL , in reply, said, that it was not the intention of the General Officer commanding the district to take any Regular Troops for the Easter Monday Review, as he thought the Volunteers would be quite sufficient to fill up the limited space of ground at their disposal.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, that the Committee alluded to by the hon. Member sat for three years, and was composed of 31 Members. Of those 31 Members three had, owing to recent Ministerial changes, accepted posts which would not enable them to give their personal attendance on the Committee, even assuming that it was possible to re-appoint it. Of the remaining 28 no fewer than 13 had unfortunately lost their scats at the General Election, among them being the well-known names of Mr. Ayrton, the Chairman of the former Committee, Mr. Fawcett, Mr. Eastwick, Mr. Crawford, and Sir Charles Wingfield. Under those circumstances it was not possible for the Government to re-appoint a Committee, a large number of whose Members were no longer Members of the House. At the same time, it was under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government
 338
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that the charges for delivery of messages had been regulated by the Telegraph Act of 1868, and it was not necessary for the Postmaster General or the Lords of the Treasury to frame any regulations on the subject.
 MR. HAYTER  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is his intention, on the occasion of the Easter Monday field-day, to order out the Regular Troops of Engineers, Artillery, Cavalry, and Infantry comprised within the Home District Command; or, if he will state to the House what proportion, if any, of such Troops of all Arms will be employed with the Auxiliary Forces on that occasion? On the occasion of the last Easter Monday Review, Mr. Secretary Cardwell had permitted the attendance of part of the London garrison—namely, throe Battalions of Foot Guards, one regiment of Life Guards, the Blues, and the Hussar Regiment then quartered at Hounslow.
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, it would no doubt be desirable that the statement should be made at an earlier period of the Session than it had been heretofore; but in the present undeveloped state of Public Business he could not enter into any engagement on the subject.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : The Cunard Company have some time since issued a notice for an ocean track for their steamers across the Atlantic, fixing a certain distance of latitude on a particular meridian for the outward and
 336
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : There is no such Opinion of the Law Officers as the Question implies. There is an Opinion given by Sir John Karslake, Sir Richard Bagallay, and Mr. Round, not as Law Officers, but as counsel, on a question referred to them as to the powers of the Commissioners appointed by the Board of Trade, on the application of the Imperial (Jas Company in 1869, to revise the scale of illuminating powers. I am about to present Papers giving the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Commissioners for 1873 and 1874, as soon as they are concluded, which will include the Opinion referred to.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY , in reply, said, the Report was under the consideration of the Government, and he would state if they had any intention of introducing a Bill on the subject after Easter.
 MR. ANDERSON  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If he is aware that the Cunard Steam Company have arranged for their own vessels on the Atlantic, separate sailing tracks eastward and westward in order to avoid collisions; if he is aware that the United States Government have it in view to endeavour to arrange a general system of Ocean Highways; and, if Her Majesty's Government is prepared to co-operate with the United States in this object, or to take any action of their own to bring it about?
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, stated that in accordance with 7 & 8  Vict Vict Vict 341
 MR. BUTT  proposed to adjourn the second reading of the Bill until Wednesday, the 15th of April. He was quite ready to move the second reading at once; but he understood that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary wished for time to consider the Bill. It was, however, secretary fair to ask him to postpone the Bill until Jury, when he might lose it altogether.
 MR. DODSON , in reply, said, the reform of private Business could be best dealt with by the Government, inasmuch as they possessed machinery and information which no individual Member could obtain. The House unanimously agreed to a Resolution to that effect in 1872. He was not without hope, after what fell from the Irish Secretary, on a former night, that the present Government would take up the question, and lie was disposed to wait to see if they would do so; but he could assure his hon. Friend that he was by no means disposed to lose sight of the matter.
 MR. VANCE  said, he hoped that as the Irish Members opposing the Bill were Members of the Irish Church Synod, which would meet shortly in Dublin, the hon. and learned Member would postpone the Bill for another week.
 MR. WHITWELL  asked the right honourable Member for Chester, Whether he intends to re-introduce this year his proposed Resolutions of 1872, for the conduct of the Business of the House of Commons?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he thought the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) a fair one, and he hoped the House would assent to it. The hon. and learned Member had treated him with courtesy, and the postponement he asked for was very reasonable.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, the prosecution of the parties referred to in the first part of the Question had been adjourned until the next assizes, and therefore the case was still pending. With regard to the whole matter to which the Question related, the informations were at present before the Attorney General for Ireland, and were under his careful consideration.
 MR. BOURKE  said, that Her Majesty's Government had no such intention at present.
 MR. BOURKE : There has been no International Treaty of the nature alluded to. An International Commission of the Maritime Powers was convened by the Sublime Porte in 1873. Those Powers sent their Commissioners. Their deliberations commenced in October and ended in December last. The result of them is contained in a Report signed by all the Commissioners on the 18th of December. This Report will be laid before Parliament immediately, and the Porte has called upon the Khedive to see that the company carry out the recommendations of the Commission. The question relating to the use of the canal by ships of war did not come before the Commission, who were restricted to the consideration of canal dues and international tonnage.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he wished to bring under the consideration of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) one or two points in connection with this subject, the more particularly as the Government was mainly responsible for the appointment of the Committee of Privilege. If that House was to appoint a Committee of Privilege for every case that arose it might find itself landed in great inconvenience and great difficulty; and he wished to suggest to the House, and especially to the Prime Minister, that, as the Government was responsible for the appointment of a Committee of Privileges at the beginning of every Session, they should before next Session consider whether it would not be better to appoint a Standing Committee of Privileges, which would be able to deal promptly with any case that might arise. It was evident that a question of Privilege might arise demanding the immediate attention of the House. It was not very seemly that so much delay should have occurred in the present instance, although, doubtless, it was unavoidable under the circumstances. But further questions of Privilege might arise in which party considerations were concerned, and then it might be extremely difficult for the right bon. Gentleman to name a special Committee which would give satisfaction. In his opinion, it would be much better that the Committee should be appointed at a time when there was no question before the House, for such a Committee would be more likely to inspire confidence than one nominated after a case had arisen for inquiry. He did not wish the right hon. Gentleman to give a definite answer now; but he thought himself entitled to ask the right bon. Gentleman to take his suggestion into consideration.
 MR. SALT  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he will be able to arrange that the discussion upon the statement of the Financial Affairs of India shall take place before the month of July?
 MR. W. JOHNSTON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What course the Government intend to take in the case of certain parties returned for trial for attacking a procession of Sunday school children at Coalisland, County Tyrone, on the 24th of June last; and also in regard to the Protestants, three times brought up before the magistrates by order of the late Government, when, on each occasion, summonses were refused to be granted against them for a defence of the children, rendered necessary by the non-action of the constabulary?
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  said, he wished to put another Question of which he had given private Notice. In 1871 a Select Committee was appointed, consisting of 32 Members, of whom 13 had now ceased to be Members of the House. Under these circumstances he would ask whether Her Majesty's Government would consider the expediency of appointing a Royal Commission, under the direction of the Viceroy in Council, to inquire from Native witnesses in India into the present system of taxation and land-holding in that portion of the Empire?
 MR. CHARLES LEWIS  asked the Postmaster General, Whether the rates
 340
 MR. GOURLEY  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he intends this Session to introduce a Bill to amend and codify the Laws regulating Benefit Building Societies; and, if so, whether such Bill will be independent of or comprise a part of that intended to be introduced for the regulation of Friendly Societies?
 MR. GOURLEY  asked. Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring the question of the navigation of the Suez Canal by ships of war before the Turkish Government?
 MR. GOURLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs,
 335
 MR. GOLDNEY  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If he will lay upon the Table of the House, a Copy of the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown, to the effect that the Board of Trade Commissioners, in settling the price of Gas to be paid by the public, are precluded from inquiring into the mode in which the Gas Companies have raised or expended their capital?
 MR. GOLDNEY  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If he intends introducing a Bill this Session, making provision for the adjustment and verification of Weights and Measures by persons other than the Police, in accordance with the suggestions in the Standard Commissioners Report?
 MR GOLDSMID  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the space now enclosed by a hoarding in front of the now buildings will be thrown into Parliament Street?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, when he came into office he found the point had been carefully considered by his predecessor, with whose views upon it he agreed. The greater part of
 345
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, that it would be injurious to the public service and unjust to the contractor to produce the document in question; but if his hon. Friend called upon him at his Office and let him know specifically what he required he would endeavour to meet his views.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the matter was under the consideration of the Government, and he was at present in communication with the Lord Advocate on the subject.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I cannot undertake to place any exact interpretation upon certain terms used in the Question of the hon. Member—namely, what is a non-political crime and what is an offence distinctly political. I will, therefore, confine myself to stating the number of prisoners now undergoing sentence. There are two prisoners, undergoing penal servitude for life, connected with the murder of the policeman at Manchester; there are no prisoners undergoing sentence connected with the Clerkenwell outrage; there are two prisoners undergoing sentences of 15 and 7 years respectively for treason-felony in supplying arms to the Fenians at the time of the outbreak, one of them being their specially accredited agent. There are, in addition, 11 soldiers under sentence for life—3 in England, and 8 in Australia. Two of these had been sentenced to death, but that sentence was commuted to penal servitude for life. There are also throe more soldiers in Australia for shorter sentences—one for 15 years, two for 10 years—who are now, probably, on tickets-of-leave; and there are two prisoners in Ireland under sentences of 20 years and 10 years respectively for shooting at the Constabulary. It is not the intention of the Government to interfere with the course of law.
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has adopted either of the various plans for a new road from Hamilton Place to Grosvenor Place, whereby the constant stoppage of the traffic at Hyde Park Corner may be avoided?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, the present Government had come to no decision in the matter, and had no plan before them. He found that a plan had been laid before his predecessor in office, the right hon. Member for Clackmannan (Mr. Adam), and that he came to a decision with respect to it, which, however, was not adopted by the Government of which he was a Member. He had no doubt the right hon. Gentleman would be able to give more correct information on the subject than he possessed.
 COLONEL HOGG  said, he would be glad to give his best consideration to the suggestions of his right hon. Friend if he were furnished with the requisite plans.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he had hoped that the special Report of the Commission on Tribunals of Commerce would be delivered that afternoon. The moment it was received it would be laid on the Table. The other Report to which he understood the Question to refer would, he expected, be in his hands in two or three weeks, and that also he should be glad to produce.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he found it had been decided before he came into office that a committee of officers should be appointed to consider how the surplus in question should be applied.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the Countess de Civry had been tried before Mr. Commissioner Kerr on an indictment containing 12 counts. On 11 of those counts the Commissioner found that there was really no evidence to go to the jury. The 12th count was one of obtaining goods under false pretences by pretending to occupy a house in Queensberry Place, and the learned Judge was so dissatisfied with the verdict that he decided not to pass sentence until full inquiries had been made. These inquiries having been made, it turned out that the statement alleged had nothing to do with the reasons which led the shopkeeper to supply the goods, the fact being that there had been a running credit between the parties for some time. Under these circumstances the case had fallen through.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, he had nothing to complain of in the remarks
 355
 MR. DICKINSON  said, he saw no necessity for continuing for 10 years the power which this Bill would give of raising money out of the Indian revenues, neither could he see that it called for any gratitude on the part of the Indian people, seeing that the money was raised on Indian credit. For himself,
 358
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, if he thought the passing of the measure would preclude the House from expressing an opinion whether it were wise to aid the Revenues of India by an Imperial grant, and if hon. Members had to decide between this financial measure and another, he might have hesitated in coming to the conclusion that to pass this one was the first and only duty of hon. Members. He took the opportunity of saying the other evening—and he still adhered to the opinion—that this was a right step in the right direction, as a first measure towards meeting the distress in India. In fact, it was an obligatory measure. The first duty of the Government of India was to feed the starving population; and it was not necessary, he held, for that Government to come to the House of Commons and ask for an Imperial guarantee for raising a loan when it had the means on its own credit to do what was necessary. Therefore he had no hesitation in again recording his assent to this loan of £10,000,000, though he should be very sorry indeed
 361 pur et simple
 MR. O'CONOR  said, that a considerable portion of the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke) referred to the putting marks on the ballot papers, which necessitated the Returning Officers rejecting them; but how could the House go into an inquiry upon that subject now when it was well known there wore several hon. Members against whom Petitions were pending on that very ground. He would draw attention to the fact, that a double return had been made from Athlone, and the question as to who was the properly elected Member would depend upon whether the Returning Officer had properly or improperly rejected certain of the voting papers. A similar state of things existed in Leitrim county, where a Petition was pending, in consequence of marks having been put on the ballot papers by the presiding officer at one of the booths. It was impossible for the House to grant a Committee at the present moment; but after the Election Petitions had been tried, and the House had obtained from the Judges a clear declaration of the law, it would be desirable to appoint a Committee to consider what amendments were necessary. It had been his own intention to bring this matter before the House in consequence of what occurred at an election last May for the county of Tyrone, at which Mr. Macartney was an unsuccessful candidate. Mr. Macartney petitioned against the return, and Mr. Justice Fitzgerald was deputed to try it. The Petition was withdrawn before trial, and Mr. Justice Fitzgerald made a Report in which he raised the point whether an election would be void in a case where the Returning Officer had marked on the back
 375
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  thanked the House for the cordial support it had given the Government in passing the Bill through its different stages. He considered it his duty the other night to make a statement as to the measures taken by the Government of India in consequence of the famine. He did not do so in the belief that the House would agree with every detail of that statement, but because he thought it right to show the House that the Government of India were incurring exceptional expenditure, and that, it was therefore necessary to relieve the finances of India. It was a mistake of the hon. and learned Member for Stroud (Mr. Dickinson) to suppose that they were taking powers to raise money for 10 years; the period was only five years. He quite agreed in the opinion expressed that that was not the time to discuss the the measures which the Viceroy had thought it necessary to take; but he wished to correct two mistakes into which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Horsham (Sir Seymour Fitzgerald) had fallen. The statement that there were no exports of grain from the distressed districts was made, not by him (Lord George Hamilton), but by the noble Lord the Secretary of State. A certain number of exports did come, not from the most distressed districts, but mainly from the lower districts around Calcutta. The other mistake into which the right hon. Gentleman fell was assuming that he (Lord George Hamilton) made the observation that the loss of £75,000 a-year would not much matter to the finances of India. What he said was that, if we had ever to come again to the market to borrow, we should do so with depreciated credit, and the ultimate loss to India would more than counterbalance the present advantage. Time alone could show whether the measures adopted by the Viceroy were sufficient or not, and it would be presumptuous for us to attempt to anticipate the verdict.
 MR. MUNDELLA  asked the Secretary of the Local Government Board, What steps are being taken to prevent the importation of adulterated articles of food into this country, and to relieve honest traders from their liability to conviction under the Act of last year for the sale of articles adulterated by the foreign producer, and on which Customs Duties have been paid?
 MR. NAGHTEN  asked the Secretary of State for War, How it is proposed to apply the fines for drunkenness and absence in the Militia, of which only £22 3 s d s d
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. and learned Gentleman is under some misapprehension
 378
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : The Board of Trade have received depositions from Liverpool relating to the reported occurrence on board a ship which, though British, was trading between foreign ports. Inquiry has already been ordered to be held at Liverpool, and some of the papers are with the office solicitor. The number of lives lost was 36.
 MR. ANDERSON  asked the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, "Whether any of the remaining Fenian prisoners were implicated in the murder of the Manchester policeman, or in the Clerkenwell outrage, or in any other non-political crime; and if the time has not come when he might safely recommend that the Royal clemency be extended to all those prisoners whose offence is distinctly political, even if aggravated by their having been in Her Majesty's service?
 MR. GREGORY  asked the First Commissioner of Works, If he will lay upon the Table of the House a Copy of the Contract for the New Courts of Justice? He wished the House to be informed at what price the contract was obtained, in what period the work was to be carried
 346
 MR. GREGORY  said, that whenever a Committee was appointed it would be necessary to consider the question of the expenses of Returning Officers, who could not proceed for their recovery against the persons nominating the candidates, but only against those who went to the poll. Consequently there was no limit to the introduction of "bogus" candidates, as it was open to any ten men to put up a man of straw as a candidate, and thereby cause all the expenses of a contest without the slightest risk on their own part. The question of the expenses charged by Returning Officers for themselves was also deserving of attention.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : The hon. Baronet is aware that the rating of the mines in which he is interested forms part of a much larger question, and I must ask him to excuse me from giving him a final answer till after Easter.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : The subject of the Adulteration Act has been much under my consideration since I have been at the Local Government Board, and a deputation respecting it has waited on the Home Secretary and myself this afternoon. If the hon. Gentleman will renew his Question immediately after Easter, I shall be able to give him an answer.
 MR. BUTT  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury to grant the increased scale of Salaries recommended by the Trustees of the British Museum for the Officers, Assistants, and other persons in that establishment, as set forth in a Return ordered by the House of Commons to be printed, 9th June 1873, No. 237; and, whether it is the intention of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury to grant to such Officers and others the arrears of pay which they would have received during the past financial year had the Resolution of the Trustees been carried into effect at the time contemplated by them?
 MR. JONES  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will explain the circumstances of the Countess de Civry, who was recently convicted for obtaining goods under false pretences, receiving an unconditional
 350
 MR. WHITWELL  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the additional Report of the Judicature Commission will be presented; and also when the special Report of the Judicature Commission upon Tribunals of Commerce will be ready for issue to Members of Parliament?
 MR. WHITWELL  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If the report which has appeared in the newspapers be correct, that a largo number of pilgrims wore washed overboard from a ship in the Mediterranean belonging to Liverpool; and whether the accident was owing to the overcrowding of the ship; and, if he has not received information on the subject, whether he will make inquiries into the truth of the statement?
 MR. LAING  thought it was important that an impression should not go abroad that there was any disposition on the part of the House, and especially of those interested in India, prematurely to censure the course which the Governor General took upon the question of prohibiting the export of rice. That question was evidently surrounded with the greatest difficulties. It was perfectly obvious that, if the Governor General had acted upon the advice given by the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal, he might, perhaps, have escaped a great deal of responsibility. He thought there could be no question that the Governor General, in deciding as he did, was influenced by strong considerations of public duty, and until we knew what the upshot of the matter was, it was quite impossible for anyone in this country to pronounce a definite judgment whether the Governor General was right or not in the course he adopted. He deprecated anything like a premature discussion, and therefore it was only fair and reasonable that the House should abstain from pronouncing an opinion on the course pursued by the Governor General until it was in possession of information as to the results of that course. That he believed to be the general opinion of the House.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he had not intended to speak on this subject; but he thought it would not be right to let the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Horsham (Sir Seymour Fitzgerald) pass without notice. He could understand very well that there should be a discussion of this matter, if it were necessary to stimulate the Government to further exertions; but he thought the right hon. Gentleman admitted that the Government were prepared to use every effort to relieve the distressed districts. If a discussion was not necessary to stimulate the Government to further exertions, then he was at a loss to conceive on what ground it was necessary, expedient, or even just, to discuss this subject. The right hon. Gentleman gave full credit to the Viceroy for his exertions since—as the right hon. Gentleman was pleased to say—he became aware of the magnitude of the famine, but the right hon. Gentleman made two very distinct charges against
 356
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he must remind the hon. Gentleman the Member for East Sussex (Mr. Gregory), that the House was aware at the time of the passing of the Ballot Act that there was no alteration in the law as regarded the power of nominations in the direction in which he appeared to suppose that there should have been; but a candidate must now be nominated by 10 persons, whereas formerly he could be nominated by two. There was therefore now no greater chance of bogus nominations than there was then. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman who had brought the subject forward would not think, and that no hon. Gentleman in the House would suppose, that because he (Mr. W. E. Forster) had charge of the Bill which was passed, he wished in any way to prevent an inquiry into its operation. He thought the time was coming when it would be really desirable to review the operations of the Act, and to find out exactly what had been the results; but the argument used by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary two days ago, anticipating that debate—namely, that they ought to wait for the reports of the Judges—seemed to him (Mr. W. E. Forster) to be almost
 376 377
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  said, the Bill was put forward as a remedial measure to meet an almost unprecedented calamity in India, and so great had been the illusion created, not only in the House, but throughout the country, on this subject, that a distinguished Prelate (the Bishop of Manchester) was reported in the public prints to have fallen into the mistake of supposing that by this Bill we were financially helping India. The truth, however, was, that we were not helping India in the slightest degree, for this was not a famine Bill but a finance Bill. Its object was to enable the distressed country to borrow in one market cheaper than it could in another. That, no doubt, was a prudent and useful act, but it ought not to be classed in the category of philanthropic proceedings. His hon. Friend the Member for Bedford (Mr. Whitbread) seemed to think that because we had not yet received complete information to enable us to judge of the wisdom of the policy adopted in India, therefore we ought not to discuss the adequacy of the measure and the necessities which called it forth. He concurred in the statement that they had not yet sufficient information to enable them to form an opinion upon the wisdom of Lord Northbrook's policy. He had had the privilege of knowing Lord Northbrook for 25 years, and although he did not always happen to agree with him, he had the most implicit belief not merely in his honour, which had not been questioned, but in his devotion to the public service, and in his rare qualities of moral and intellectual fitness for his high position, and he prayed most sincerely that he would come out of the great trial which it had been his singular fate to meet, with honour and credit to himself and the name he bore. There was, however, a much more important question to consider than that of Lord Northbrook's foresight—that, indeed, was a personal question; but there was a national question which it was incumbent on Parliament to consider. Having taken India in charge by the Act of 1858, it became their duty to think for themselves. His hon. Friend had said we must wait in order that we might be able to judge by results. But could we afford to wait for results when millions of lives were at stake? Hon. Members of that House ought to endeavour to
 360 ad valorem
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  (who had given Notice that he intended to call attention to the defects of the Ballot Act, and to move for a Select Committee to investigate the working of the Act, with power to suggest Amendments of the same) said: In bringing the subject before the House, I disclaim any idea of bringing it forward as a result of the last Election it being generally agreed that hon. Members opposite, who have been returned in a large majority, do truly
 362 363 "Any ballot paper which has not on its back the official mark, or on which… anything, except the said number on the back, is written or marked, by which the voter can be identified, shall be void and not counted." 364 365 366 367 368 369 The Times 370
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, he had no doubt that the House was desirous that the Ballot Act should be made as perfect as possible in their own interests and in the interests of the constituencies of the country generally, for it was very desirable that the loss of votes should be prevented, and accuracy in counting votes should be secured, and that steps should be taken to diminish as much as possible the expenses. It was only necessary for him to remind the House that not fewer than 12 hon. Members of the House had been returned by majorities of 10 and under, and that 24 hon. Members had obtained majorities of 20 or under. These facts were sufficient to show that precision and accuracy were of the utmost importance, and that the power of the Returning Officer, for good or bad reasons, to reject voting papers which had some peculiarity in them—without decision or authority to guide
 371 372 in posse 373 honorarium honorarium 374
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  hoped this conversation would drop. He thought the time had not yet come for the House to enter into a discussion of that great calamity which had fallen on Bengal. They had not before them the information which had been promised, and without the Reports in full, it was not fair to the Viceroy of India to express any opinion as to his merits or demerits in respect to the measures taken by him to aid the people of the famine-struck districts. Moreover, when the time for discussion came, they would have to deal with the still larger question—how could they prevent a similar calamity in the future? It was 100 years since the great famine of 1770
 357
 SIR JOHN ST. AUBYN  asked the President of the Local Government Board, If Her Majesty's Government propose to legislate this Session to abolish the exemption from liability to local rates of tin and copper mines in England and Wales?
 SIR WYNDHAM ANSTRUTHER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will reconsider the amended rules and regulations for the government of county constables, issued from the Home Office by the late Secretary of State for that Department, which relate to the employment of constables on other than police duties, and cancel the same, so as to enable the police to aid the authorities and officers acting in the execution of the Public Health (Scotland) Act, as they did prior to the issuing of the said rules and regulations?
 MR. ADAM  said, he had given the fullest consideration to the matter during the Recess, when a plan had been proposed by the Metropolitan Board of Works for carrying a road from Hamilton Place to Constitution Hill, with branches opening towards Grosvenor Place and Buckingham Palace. He brought the plan under the consideration of the late Government, but they felt it was too great a question to take up at the time. He might state that the Duke of Westminster had taken very great interest in the subject, and was disposed to deal in the most liberal manner with any proposals which might be made. After the plan to which he referred had been submitted to his notice, he had an interview with the agent and surveyor of the Duke, and they had recommended a plan which would, to some extent, also interfere with the use of the Park. He at the same time ventured to suggest two plans, which he might, perhaps, now submit to the notice of his hon. and gallant Friend the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board (Colonel Hogg). The first was that the roadway at Piccadilly should he turned before reaching the Archway, and that the road should be made to pass between the Archway and the Green Park, leaving the Archway standing out in an isolated position with a road on each side. That would effectually relieve the traffic at Hyde Park Corner. It would necessitate a new entrance to Constitution Hill and a new gateway, and would be rather expensive. There was a much simpler plan which he would suggest, and which could be carried out in a few weeks. Between the Archway and the roadway in Piccadilly there was a very broad pavement, and also a piece of garden ground. The pavement was broader than was necessary for the foot-passenger
 349
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he wished to state on his own behalf, as well as on that of several other hon. Members, that although the Bill had been allowed to pass through its previous stages without discussion, and almost without demur, yet it must not, in consequence, be supposed that they approved the course which had been taken by the Government of India. We had periods of scarcity constantly recurring in that country, and in the present instance the policy which had been adopted by the Viceroy and his councillors seemed to him to be one of a very exceptional character. They had proceeded on the principle that they should rely entirely on the ordinary laws of trade to meet a great emergency; but, for his own part, he was rather inclined to think that exceptional cases were properly met by exceptional means. There was on all sides a desire to give the Viceroy the highest credit for the energy, zeal, and self-devotion which he had manifested ever since it had become clear to him that the crisis with which he had to deal was of no ordinary kind; yet, in his opinion, he failed thoroughly to appreciate the gravity of the crisis for
 351 352 353 354
 MR. GOLDSMID  also bore testimony to the very fair manner in which the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works had agreed to strike out all that was most objectionable in that part of the Bill to which the noble Lord had referred, and especially that portion of it which appeared to give power to impose on the rates in future expenditure similar to that which the Auditor had disallowed. It had also been agreed that Clause 22 should be modified, so as to give a fair and equal right of appeal to the Court of Queen's Bench both to the ratepayers and to the Board against the decision of the Auditor. He was, on the whole, satisfied with the agreement that had been come to, and therefore thought the noble Lord had exercised wise discretion in not moving his Amendment.
 MR. RAICES  said, he hoped that, after the expression of opinion which had been elicited from both sides of the House, the objection to the second reading of the Bill would not be pressed. It was necessary that some forbearance should be shown by hon. Members who objected to particular parts of the Bill, in order that the passing of others to which no objection was made might not be jeopardized. Surely, the most convenient course would be to have the Bill considered by a Committee, which could have the various plans before it to which reference had been made, and without which the House could hardly arrive at a satisfactory solution of the different questions involved. He saw no reason to fear that the Metropolitan Board of Works Mould not act in a considerate spirit with regard to parts of the Bill that might be found to be objectionable. The House should, at the same time, bear in mind that while the Metropolitan Board had engaged to withdraw some of the provisions to which objection had been raised, there was nothing to bind the Committee from striking out any of the remaining clauses if they should think proper. As to the new road to which reference had been made, he thought there was a great deal to be said in its favour, It would be the means of withdrawing from the Park the general traffic which rendered it necessary to keep the present road open during the night, and if this result were obtained it would be possible
 406
 MAJOR DICKSON  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, If it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill this Session to make property used for Government purposes assessable to Local Rates?
 COLONEL HOGG  asked the House not to refuse to give a second reading to the Bill. With regard to the word "near" used in the title of the Bill, and objected to by the hon. Member for Finsbury as deceptive and misleading, he would beg to point out that a Bill was not construed only by its title, and he would assure the House that in framing that title the Metropolitan Board of Works had no intention to deceive or mislead Parliament or the public. He trusted that the Bill would be permitted to go before a Select Committee and be tried in duo form. Being an "omnibus" Bill this was all the more essential, inasmuch as apart altogether from the question of the Finsbury Park Road, the measure was designed to deal with other important matters, such as the inclusion of the South Hornsey district in the metropolitan system of sewage, and the improvement at Newington Butts, where a church was to be removed and the thoroughfare widened. The Metropolitan Board had no wish to take away from Finsbury Park any portion of the ground of which it was originally proposed that it should consist. By the Act of 1857, 116 acres were set apart for the Park, out of which 20 were allotted for building ground; but, instead of building on those 20 acres, the Board decided on having them thrown into the Park He might add that the Bill of 1857 was opposed in the strongest manner by certain landowners, to whom concessions had to be made. The Board gave them rights of way through the Park; but the landowners who had pasture-lands to the west and north insisted on the Park being kept open by night as well as by day. Now, in the daytime it was found very inconvenient by the women and children who frequented the Park that cattle should be driven through it at all sorts of hours; while during the night cases of immorality were frequent—he could give an idea of the extent of this evil by the statement that there had been about 40 cases of prosecution within the last 12 months. The road now proposed skirting the Park on the northern
 403 404
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : It is the intention of the Government to legislate upon the subject in the present Session, and, I may add—but speaking generally only—in the spirit of the Report of the Committee.
 COLONEL HOGG , in reply, said, the nuisance of which the noble Lord complained did not arise from any sewer under the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Board of Works. It arose from a small parochial sewer. He had called the attention of the Vestry of St. George, Hanover Square, to the matter, with a view to the abatement of the nuisance.
 MR. MACKINTOSH  asked the Lord Advocate, Whether, under the circumstances of the expenses of the Sasine Office in Edinburgh during the last year being only £15,870, while the fees drawn were £32,526 16s. 11 d.
 DR. CAMERON  asked the Lord Advocate, Whether his attention has been directed to the serious loss and inconvenience recently suffered in Glasgow and Lanarkshire generally in consequence of the absence of any provision for the appointment of an interim Sheriff Principal in cases where the holder of that office is prevented by illness from discharging his duties; and, whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government this Session to introduce any measure which will admit of such interim appointments being made?
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING MAXWELL  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it be true that the lad who was convicted on the 14th instant at Worship Street of cruelly killing a neighbour's oat, and who was sentenced to fourteen days' imprisonment with hard labour, has had half of the sentence remitted; and, if so, whether he will state the grounds upon which the remission was granted?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : Yes, Sir; it is true that the lad who was convicted of killing a cat and sentenced to 14 days' imprisonment had half his sentence remitted. The doubt is as to the word "cruelly." On careful inquiry by the police it appears that the cat was after the boy's pigeons the boy went to drive it away and it jumped upon a wall, where the boy hit it once or twice with an iron rod and unfortunately killed it: but, apparently, he did not mean to do so, and did all he could to restore it, and beyond the blows there was no wanton act of cruelty. The Superintendent of Police further reported that the Secretary of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals said he would be happy to further the object of the memorial praying for the remission of the sentence, and on that I acted.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that from time to time various Returns had been made respecting the persons who wore in custody for offences such as the hon. Member had alluded to. He had no objection to order similar Returns, though not in the terms suggested in the Question. Before the hon. Member moved for the Returns he should be happy to confer with him on the subject.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said: With your permission, Sir, I am very desirous to second the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. It is quite unnecessary for me, after the ample description which the right hon. Gentleman has given of the operations on the Gold Coast, to
 422 423 424 425
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSAY  said, that the speech which had been delivered by the Primo Minister had conveyed in the most appropriate manner the thanks of that Assembly to Sir Carnet Wolseley and the soldiers who had shared with him in the perils, the difficulties, and the successes of the operations on the West Coast of Africa. If that which they wore now doing were a mere complimentary business, private Members might be content to leave to the Leader of the House the task of expressing in well-chosen words the satisfaction which England had experienced in watching the conduct of her little Army during the recent campaign. But that was not a mere formal business, and private Members might be excused for a little effusion of feeling on an event which could not occur very often. Among all professions, it might be said that those who belonged to the military and naval forces of this country wore the most sensitive to the praise and blame of those in whose good opinion they desired to stand well. The frequent thought in a soldier's mind when he was engaged, thousands of miles away from home, was—"What will they say in England of the way in which we are doing this duty?" How could the House of Commons do better than encourage that noble feeling, which gave a sure guarantee that wherever English troops were engaged, and under whatever circumstances they might be placed, they would act up to the highest standard to which their strength and their endurance
 426 427
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  might, perhaps, be allowed to say that it would have been out of place to mention the medical officers in the Vote of Thanks, inasmuch as other officers of the same rank were not named in it. But the hon. Member who had just sat down would observe that the thanks of the House were given to all "the other Officers of the Navy, Army, and Royal
 428
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in moving that the number of Land Forces for the Service of the United Kingdom be 128,994, said: After the interesting discussion to which we have just listened on the subject of the recent war in Ashantee, I am afraid that the somewhat detailed statement which I shall have to offer to the House will be rather distasteful; but, at the same time, those who are interested in the success of our Army such as has been achieved in that
 433 434 435 436 physique 437 438 439 a laugh 440 441 s 442 "The result as to the health of the troops in the United Kingdom during the year has been satisfactory. The ratio of admissions to hospital per 1,000 of the strength was 20 below that for 1372, and although the ratio of deaths was rather higher than during that year, it was 33 below the average of the previous 10 years. It will be observed that the results for the three Indian Presidencies, those of Bengal and Bombay in particular, are more than usually favourable. At Mauritius the ratios of sickness and mortality were high, from the continued prevalence of the malarious fever by which that island has been so severely visited during the last few years." 443 en bloc; 444 445 s 446 447 448 449 450 451 452 453
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he did not rise to criticize the Estimates, which had been expounded by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War with great ability and in the most lucid manner. With regard to the six years' recruiting for the Militia, instead of five, he might state that he had been appointed on the War Office Committee by the late Government who reported in favour of six years—it being thought, on mature consideration, a good thing for the Service, and not injurious to the Militia. In his own county he had no difficulty in getting the men for the six years, although there was some difficulty in getting them to re-enlist. With regard to the depôt system, he was convinced that it would turn out the most expensive absurdity which the country had over adopted the hon. Gentleman the Member for Hackney (Mr. J. Holms), to whom he had often listened with attention, had broached a maxim with reference to the Militia which no Government could adopt, which the Duke of Wellington and Sir John Burgoyne set their countenances against, and which he (Colonel Gilpin) hoped the Committee would not approve of the Militia, though they might not be perfect soldiers, were trained men, and much better than the young recruits of 18 enlisted for the Regular Army. With regard to the abolition of purchase in the Army, although the House had acted with much liberality, yet the money devoted to that purpose had been disposed of in a way which was not satisfactory to the Service. He himself had held that, as soon as the purchase system was abolished, the officers should have received the regulation price of their commissions. He should be glad to hear that they were likely soon to have placed on the Table the Report of the Royal Commission now sitting on that subject.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he did not rise to object to the introduction of the Bill; but as it, touched a question of very great importance, which, if handled at all, must be handled with great delicacy, he hoped the hon. Gentleman the Member for Gloucester (Mr. Monk) would not press the second reading for a considerable time, in order that it might, be thoroughly discussed in the country before the House was asked to give an opinion on it.
 MR. ALGERNON EGERTON (for Mr. HUNT) , in reply, said, the "London" would be ready on the 15th of April to be put into commission, though it had not yet been decided when she should be actually put into commission.
 MR. KINNAIRD  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, When the "London," for which the Vote was taken on Saturday last, would be put into commission to proceed to Zanzibar?
 LORD CLAUD JOHN HAMILTON  asked the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works, If his attention has been drawn during the past week to the noxious condition of the Main Sewer running under Piccadilly into the Green Park; and whether, in view of the approaching summer, it is the intention of his Board to take steps to remedy an annoyance so prejudicial to the public health?
 LORD EDMOND FITZMAURICE , who had given Notice of an Amendment "that the Bill be read the second time that day six months," said, that he did not intend to press that Motion, as he had boon able to come to an arrangement with the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board with reference to the Bill, which dealt with multifarious matters, He left that part of it which related to Finsbury Park to the hon. Members for Finsbury. The provisions in it to which he objected threw upon the metropolitan rates the cost of certain structures which were erected in Hyde Park and on the Holborn Viaduct by the Metropolitan Board of Works on the occasion of the National Thanksgiving in 1872. Objection to these erections at the public cost had been taken at the time by the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), and himself (Lord Edmond Fitzmaurice.) Notwithstanding that, the expenditure took place, and upon the objection of several ratepayers it was disallowed by the Auditor; but owing to a flaw in the Metropolis Local Management Act it was not easy to recover the amount so disallowed. Recourse was then had to the Court of Chancery and at this moment a suit was pending on the subject. Hence his
 400 in toto "That nothing in this Bill contained shall give any powers to the Metropolitan Board of Works, Vestries, or District Boards to incur expenses and charge thorn to the rates beyond those contained in any existing Acts." 401
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, a letter had been addressed to the Indian Government asking them to expedite the consideration of the final accounts of the Kirwee booty. He could not say exactly when the accounts would be received; but they would be laid on the Table as early as possible.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that some of the Money Order Offices were not of sufficient importance to have telegraphic communication. Others were; but he could not say when the communication would be complete in their cases. Five-sixths of the Money Order Offices in Ireland had telegraphic communication now, which was above the proportion of England and Scotland.
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, the subject was under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government, and that after Easter they would be able to give a more definite reply on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker—The state of affairs on the Gold Coast at the commencement of last October was gloomy in the extreme. The Protectorate was entirely overrun by the enemy, who pressed in force even to the immediate neighbourhood of our own Settlements. There was great dissatisfaction among all the Native tribes, and the friendly Chiefs were in a state of utter despondency and inaction. The situation of affairs was not only unsatisfactory, it might have been described as disastrous had it not been for the efforts of a handful of blue-jackets and Marines, whose valiant energy saved in fact the whole of our subjects and those who depended upon us from being swept, I may say, from the Coast. Fortunately these men wore commanded in each Service by a man equal to the occasion. Colonel Festing, who commanded the Marines, and Captain Fremantle, who commanded the Sailors, showed that they possessed the same mettle which animated those who afterwards marched to Coomassie. But, Sir, it must be obvious that, with only a few hundred men, in the face of a foe that might be counted, not by thousands, but by tens of thousands, the result of their efforts must necessarily be limited. Yet they succeeded in checking and controlling the enemy, and during the eight months which thus elapsed between the commencement of the year and the beginning of October, with these limited resources, they had
 413 414 415 416 417 418 419 420 421
 MR. FRESHFIELD  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether the final accounts of the Kirwee Booty, which have been so long under preparation, will be ready to be presented to the House be Core Whitsuntide?
 COLONEL ALEXANDER  said, he should not abuse the patience of the Committee, if they would listen to him for a short time. Different people had different views as to the number of men of which our Land Forces should consist, but he was afraid that, owing to the great difficulty of recruiting under our present system, we were in danger of not obtaining the number of men the Committee were asked to vote, and consequently, of having what the Secretary for War had so properly deprecated in the course of his speech—a paper Army. He agreed with the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. J. Holms) that our agricultural labourers made the best soldiers; but how were they to be persuaded to enter our Army V If recruiting failed to bring into the Force the requisite number of men, there must be something wrong with the system. The regiment in which he had held a commission for the past quarter of a century
 468 s 469 d
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Law relating to Land Rights and Conveyancing, and to facilitate the Transfer of Land in Scotland, said, that Bills on this subject had been brought forward in 1871, 1872, and 1873, and he hoped this year they would be able to pass a measure which would give satisfaction to Scotland. He would move the second reading of the Bill on an early day.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : My attention has boon directed to the circumstances referred to in the Question of the hon. Member. I am not prepared to state that there exists no power in the Court of Session to appoint an interim sheriff principal in the case of any such sheriff being prevented from discharging his duties by temporary illness, especially in the event of the Minister of the Crown giving his sanction to leave of absence to the sheriff. The Court of Session have, indeed, frequently exercised the right of making a temporary appointment of a sheriff when there was a death vacancy, and the public advantage required the office not to remain long vacant. But, as opinions to a different effect have been expressed by authorities entitled to consideration, I think it will be expedient that all difficulty should be removed in the way of preventing the loss and inconvenience caused by the temporary inability by a sheriff to discharge his duties, by vesting the power of interim appointment in Her Majesty's Government or in the Court for a limited time; and I hope this may be effected by a clause
 410
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : When I introduced, in 1868, the Bill for concentrating in Edinburgh all the Registers of Sasines in Scotland, it was with the hope, among other things, that the cost of registration would be materially reduced, especially in regard to properties of small value. I have now the satisfaction to say that that hope has been realized, and that the consideration to the owners of lands and heritages in Scotland which my hon. Friend desires has already been shown, in so far as the reduction of fees of registration is con-corned. By a new table of fees, com-
 409
 MR. G. BROWNE  asked the Postmaster General. If it is intended to extend Telegraphic Communication to those Money Order Offices throughout Ireland not already provided with such
 407
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he understood that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman would not preclude hon. Members
 478
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he was sure every hon. Member of the House would wish, on that occasion, when all were desirous to do honour to the soldiers who had been engaged in this arduous undertaking, that there should be no kind of controversy introduced, nor anything said that would tend to mar the unanimity that prevailed with regard to the object the House had in view. He only rose, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just addressed the House, to say that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) had omitted to state that the white troops could not be sent earlier to the Gold Coast than they were, on account of the sanitary condition of the country. [Sir EARDLEY WILMOT: The officers were sent.] The officers were sent with Sir Garnet Wolseley, at his request, to take preliminary measures, to get information, and organize matters; and it would be apparent to the House that it was possible to take sanitary precautions with reference to a handful of officers which it would be impossible to take with regard to entire regiments. He wished it to be understood that when Sir Garnet Wolseley was despatched, the white troops were not sent with him—not because it was intended to carry on the war with Native allies only—but because from the nature of the climate it was unsafe to send white troops until December. As soon as the season admitted of it the European troops arrived at the Gold Coast.
 MR. HUNT , in moving a Vote for 60,000 Men and Boys, said, as before intimated, that he proposed to lay the Navy Estimates before the Committee on the 20th of April. As, however, it was necessary in the meantime to take steps for the renewal of the Mutiny Act, he desired the Committee to show him some indulgence by passing at the present sitting, and without debate, the Vote for the number of men required. The number mentioned in the Vote was 60,000 men and boys, including 14,000 Royal Marines; and that was just what his right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Goschen) would have proposed had he remained in office.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, he was sorry that the hon. Gentleman had had to wait so long for the Return; but it would be in the hands of Members in a short time.
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, he presumed this Amendment was made in solemn earnest, for nothing but what was very sober ever proceeded from the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir Wilfrid Law-son); but he must confess that his doubts had not been resolved by the speech with which the hon. Baronet had introduced his Amendment. The hon. Baronet said he could not understand the reason for the extraordinary armaments of this country; and he (Mr. Butler-Johnstone) in that must agree with him, for when he looked at the armaments abroad, he must confess the armaments of this country were extraordinary—from the smallness of their extent, and not from the largeness of their
 474 475
 MR. BUTT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has any objection to lay upon the Table of the House a Return of the names of the twenty prisoners mentioned in his
 412
 MR. J. LOWTHER , in reply, said, the questions arising out of the case were referred in June last by Her Majesty's Minister at Madrid to the Spanish Government. No further information had been since received, except that the claims had been referred by the Government of Spain to the Captain General of Cuba, with a view to obtaining his remarks upon them.
 MR. J. HOLMS  said, the Estimates of the year had been presented to the House under very peculiar circumstances. In the first place, they were presented by the right hon. Gentleman who could not be said to be responsible for them, and they must all admire the spirit and the ability with which he had performed the duty; secondly, they were presented to a House of Commons composed largely of new Members; and, thirdly, they were presented while the Army itself was still in a state of transition. Happily, therefore, they could discuss the question free from all party bias. For himself, he had always felt that there ought to be no party spirit in dealing with the constitution and maintenance of the Army, and with regard to the present occasion he would remark that, having expressed his opinions fearlessly when his political Friends were in office, he should do the same now they were in Opposition. He was afraid that the right hon. Gentleman had given the House a rather rose-coloured version of the state of the Army. The expenditure was about £69,000 more than last year, yet the total strength of the British Establishment, Militia, Yeomanry, and Reserve, was smaller—namely, 291,000, instead of 306,000. Returns for which he had moved, in order to ascertain the actual numbers at an average period of the year, showed that the non-commissioned officers and men of the British Establishment on the 30th November
 464 and a laugh 465 466 d 467
 MR. LOCKE  pointed out that, with regard to the proposed new road at Pins-bury Park, there was a serious discrepancy between the clause in the Bill and the details of the plan. Instead of skirting the Park, it appeared from the plan that the road would go straight through it, and would consequently take away a great portion of the laud which otherwise would belong to the Park. An inaccuracy of this description ought, at all events, to be removed before the Bill was allowed to pass the second reading. There had already been a good deal of land taken away from the Park. First it had contained 250 acres, then it had dropped down to 116, and afterwards 20 more had been taken away. Taking this melancholy position of the Park into consideration, he thought the House should, as far as possible,
 405
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in view of the unrepealed sections of the Building Act of 1844 coming into operation in August next, the Government proposes to legislate on the subject according to the recommendations contained in the Report of the Select Committee made last year?
 MR. LOCKE  seconded the Amendment.
 DR. LUSH  asked the Secretary to the Local Government Board, If he can state when a Return relating to Medical Officers of Health and Inspectors of Nuisances, moved for on the 1st of July last, and ordered to be printed, will be laid upon the Table?
 DR. LUSH  said, he did not rise to prolong the debate; but he must express his regret that the body of officers whose duty it had been to take care of the health of the troops engaged in that Expedition, and whose services wore unusually important on that occasion, had been in no way mentioned either in that Vote of Thanks or in the speech of the Prime Minister. It appeared to him that the medical officers in that Expedition had a special claim to consideration; and although it might have been contrary to etiquette to mention them specially, yet he ventured to think that was not an adequate reason for omitting to notice them. It was well known that on the medical policy adopted in an enterprise on that coast, the power of the troops to withstand the dangers of the climate, and thus to go successfully through their work, vitally depended.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he intends to direct any relaxation in the application of those clauses of the Peace Preservation Act which restrict Irish farmers in the possession of fowling-pieces?
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  said, he thought that £13,000,000 per annum was an enormous sum to spend on the Army, with only about 160,000 men on the war footing, and that we might maintain that amount of force and yet relieve the finances of the country to the extent of
 477
 COLONEL NORTH  rose to suggest that the £5,000 which was brought back with the greatest difficulty by his gallant friend, Sir Garnet Wolseley, from Coomassie should be considered as part of the prize, and should be distributed among the troops. The House was aware that anything in the shape of pillage was put down with the utmost severity in our Army, and the things which had been taken during the war and sold at Cape Coast had, he believed, realized
 431
 MR. SERJEANT SIMON  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he is able to give him any information respecting the claims
 411
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, the hon. and gallant Member appeared to desire that fowling-pieces should be exceptionally treated, and that persons who might not be considered fit subjects for licences to carry arms generally might possess fowling-pieces and use them without licences. As far as he was at present advised, he thought such a course would not be a wise one to adopt, even if it were possible. It would not be easy to distinguish between what was called a fowling-piece and what was not. A fowling-piece might be used to carry bullets as well as shot, and he was afraid the history of the many outrages in Ireland would show that it was with these weapons that many of those outrages had been committed. Every reasonable facility ought to be given to Irish farmers to obtain licences for the carrying of arms of the description mentioned in the Question. Much had been done already in this direction, and he should be glad if anything further could be done for giving these facilities.
 MR. COOPE  said, the proposed road was described in the Bill as "near" and as "skirting Finsbury Park on the northern and western sides;" whereas, when he came to look at the plans, he found that it encroached very considerably on the Park, destroying two cricket grounds which to the great advantage of the neighbourhood at present existed. A very strong feeling prevailed in Finsbury against this encroachment. It was mite unnecessary to make a new road; for if the present one were properly fenced and lighted a great deal would be done to check the immorality unfortunately existing in the Park, and thus one of the chief objects in view would be met. For his own part, he should give the Bill every opposition in his power.
 MR. HALSEY , as a commanding officer of Yeomanry of long standing, thought that force should be armed with the best available weapon as well as the other branches of the service; whereas the fact was, they were still armed with a rifle which did not contain the ignition in its own cartridge. He also hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War would take measures for the establishment of a school for the instruction of Yeomanry officers in order to make them thoroughly efficient.
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  said, he objected to that part of the Bill which related to Finsbury Park, and had no other course but to oppose the Bill altogether. He objected to that part of the Bill, because, as described in the "title," it contained powers nominally to make a road "near" Finsbury Park, when, in fact, it proposed to make an encroachment on the limited area of 126 acres set apart for the public. He had no other means of protecting his constituents but to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The word "near" meant outside, not inside, and in this respect the Bill was delusive. If the House overlooked measures with deceptive and misleading titles like the present, he should like to be informed where they would come to in a short time. This was by no means a new question. It had been fought before both in the last and the preceding Parliament. It would be a gross and a glaring injustice if the Bill wore allowed to pass in its present form. The road which the Board of Works sought powers to make was through a portion of the Park, and not, as the Bill would lead people to believe, near its boundary. He hoped the House would support his Amendment and negative the second reading.
 SIR W. VERNON HARCOURT  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 408
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he was strongly in favour of reductions in the Army, and of economy in every Department; but he thought it unfair to push the new Government to extremities, especially when it was considered that these Estimates had been prepared by their predecessors. The necessity for increased economy in the Army expenditure was shown by the fact that if there had not been a saving in stores the expenditure of the year would have shown an increase of £250,000. But there was this great objection to the redaction of 10,000 men, proposed by the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle, that on the existing organization of the Infantry of the Line, on which the reduction would mainly fall, it could not be carried out without rendering the regiments and battalions at home quite inefficient. The number of privates of Infantry being 94,000 in round numbers, and 50,000 being in India and the Colonies, and 7,000 in depôts, there were only 34,000, with 70 battalions, in the United Kingdom, distributed amongst 70 battalions of 560 companies, so that by reducing 10,000, there would remain
 476
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, he had had occasion more than once during the debate to regret the absence of those who were his Colleagues in the War Department of the late Government, and was sorry that the duty of representing Lord Cardwell's policy had not fallen into more effective hands. He especially regretted the absence of the late Secretary for War when the hon. and gallant Member for West Sussex (Colonel Barttelot) was addressing to the House his fervid denunciations of that policy. His hon. and gallant Friend had that evening again accused
 470 esprit de corps 471 472 473
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, he had to acknowledge his gratitude to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government for the handsome terms in which he had spoken of the services of his gallant son (Lieutenant Eardley Wilmot). He expressed his most cordial concurrence in everything which had fallen from that right hon. Gentleman, and also from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone), respecting the noble and heroic conduct of every officer and soldier who had taken part in the Ashantee Expedition. There was one officer, with whom he had had some personal communication, whose name he should have liked to have seen associated with the distinguished names which had been mentioned in the Resolutions before the House; but, from what had just been said by the Secretary of State for War, he felt that its omission was unavoidable. He meant Captain Rait, of the Artillery—a most zealous and deserving officer. It was well known to those who had followed the operations of the campaign on the Gold Coast, that the services of Captain Rait had contributed in no small degree to their success. Even during that hard fight which had been so well described by the First Lord of the Treasury—the action of Amoaful—they knew, from the accounts given by the newspapers and also by those who were present at the battle, that Captain Rait's rockets were extremely useful in enabling the gallant 42nd Regiment to drive the enemy through the bush and gain the victory which they won. With respect to the
 429 430
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he thought such a statement would be very useful, and he had given directions that one should be prepared. He should be prepared to lay it upon the Table of the House before the Budget.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  remarked that his hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle (Sir Wilfrid Lawson) who had just brought forward his annual Motion for the reduction of the Army with his usual good temper, proposed at a City banquet some time ago the health of the hon. Member for Merthyr (Mr. Richard). While giving both those hon. Gentlemen credit for good intentions, he could not think their Motions were well-founded, either with regard to the opinions of this country or of foreign nations. His hon. Friend thought the time had come when the lion might lie down with the lamb; but had forgotten that in every nation of Europe, instead of any diminution being made in armaments, statesmen were endeavouring to place in the field a greater number of well-equipped men than had ever been known before in the history of the world. Yet his hon. Friend was now asking us to reduce our small Army by 10,000 men. His hon. Friend admitted that the Crimean War was a great mistake, and he also admitted that, after we had fought to attain a certain object, we had men who could throw that advantage to the winds, and who thought that what we had fought for was not worth maintaining. If his hon. Friend was in earnest in his proposal to reduce the Army, in what branch of the service would the hon. Gentleman make his proposed reduction—in the Cavalry, or the Artillery? He thought the hon. Gentleman would not be disposed to touch either of those branches; and in point of fact he had not shown where he would begin his reduction; it certainly could not be in our attenuated Infantry battalions. The hon. Gentleman had confessed that the country did not want a reduction of the Army, or the petty retrenchments which had been effected by the late Government. The hon. Gentleman also spoke of the great reverse of his party, and that retrenchment might have had something to do with it. He, (Colonel Barttelot) for one, was not opposed to economy; but seeing that the country was in a state of unexampled prosperity, surely they were not paying too high an insurance in keeping up an efficient body of men in the Army to sustain and uphold that
 459 esprit de corps 460 esprit de corps 461 462 463
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON , in moving, as an Amendment, the reduction of the Vote by 10,000 men said, he was sure the Committee was very much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the able and eloquent way in which he had moved the vote. He (Sir Wilfrid Lawson) had ventured to put an Amendment on the Paper, and was glad to have had the benefit of the assertion of the Primo Minister that ovening that the efficiency of an Army did not depend upon its size. This was the most important Vote which came before the House of Commons in the course of the year. It was a Vote involving policy and not confined to details, because when once the number of men was voted, the spirit was out of the whole thing; you must feed, house, and clothe the men. When General Peel was Secretary for War—and an abler never sat in this House—ho used to reckon the expense of every man roughly at £100, so that if the Committee knocked off 10,000 men, as he now proposed, they would save something like a million of money. Perhaps a million was not thought much of in these days of large surpluses; but it would be a great thing for the Chancellor of the Exchequer, especially when he was harassed twice a week by interests clamouring for remissions of taxes. Of far greater importance, however, than the money saving was the policy now at issue. The present Prime Minister had once declared that "expenditure depends on policy." He was right; but would he kindly inform the Committee what was the policy which required us to keep on foot at this time in the United Kingdom, a larger Army than we had ever had since 1810, when we were threatened by a French invasion? Her Majesty had announced that her relations with all foreign Powers continued most friendly, yet we were now asked for 2G more men for the Regular Army than were deemed necessary last year. Certainly, 26 was not a large number; but still it was an increase; and if these, as they had once been told, wore "transition Estimates," the transition was from bad to worse, for an increased expenditure of £09,200 was now proposed over the Estimate of 1870–4. He thought when, as Lord Cardwell had promised, the Army had been "blended into one harmonious whole," the cost of maintaining it would be reduced; but that did
 455 Laughter, and 456 "Let us terminate this disastrous system of rival expenditure, and mutually agree, with no hypocrisy, but in a manner and under circumstances which can admit of no doubt—by a reduction of armaments—that peace is really our policy. Then, Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer may look forward with no apprehension to his next Budget, and England may then actually witness the termination of the income tax."—[3  Hansard 457
 MAJOR BEAUMONT  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, When it is likely that steps will be taken to complete the buildings of the South Kensington Museum?
 MR. OWEN LEWIS  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it is true that the Catholic inmates of the Royal Military Hospital at Kilmainham, Dublin, are obliged to leave the Hospital in all weathers and at all seasons to attend Divine Service though many of them are advanced in life and infirm, while their Protestant comrades, though little more than one-fifth of the whole number of pensioners have a chapel and resident chaplain of their own religion in the Hospital?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he hoped to be able to bring on the Licensing Bill soon after Easter, in order that it might be discussed before Whitsuntide.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY : Sir, I very much regret that I have not had an opportunity of communicating until a few minutes ago, either to the Government, or to the House, my intention of calling their attention to one subject to which I think it is important their attention should be directed at this time. My only excuse for bringing it forward now is that if anything at all is to be done in the matter to which I
 487
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, there is a certain inconvenience in questions of this nature being brought before the House without Notice, and I am sure my right hon. and learned Friend will not blame me if I do not give a very definite answer to his proposal. There can be but one feeling in the House of Commons with respect to the claims of Dr. Livingstone on this country, and the reverence due to his memory. At the same time, the House will perceive at once that matters of this kind require investigation and consideration. The body of this illustrious man is being brought to the country at the public expense.
 488 manes
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : The hon. and learned Member moved for this Return last Session. My noble predecessor (The Marquess of Hartington) opposed the Motion, and it was negatived without a division. Whatever reason
 489 490 bonâ fide
 MR. BUTT  said, he would not trouble the House to divide, solely because he believed it would be useless. He still thought this was a matter in which the right hon. Baronet should not refuse a Return. On the Motion which he made last year he asked for the items and the Estimates in which the sums would appear. The reply of the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington) was that they did not appear in the Estimates, and therefore the Motion was useless. It was consequently negatived; but he (Mr. Butt) gave Notice that he would renew it this Session he thought the right hon. Baronet was mistaken in supposing that there was any such practice in England as he had described. He remembered that in the case of Governor Eyre a division was taken. To teach, officers that the Government would keep them harmless in case of actions for damages against them was unconstitutional. To do so was to teach officers to look to the Government, and not to the law, for the guidance of their conduct. It might be said that such expenses were paid out of secret service money; but
 491
 VISCOUNT SANDON  regretted that no Notice whatever had been given to him of the hon. and gallant Member's intention to move for this important Return, and he trusted the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not press his Motion under these circumstances. He should be happy to institute inquiries into the subject; and, if there were no objection to the Return, it should be produced.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, it appeared to him that the House was indebted to his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) for converting what would be a fallacious Return into a complete one which would enable hon. Members to understand the matter. He thought the proper course would be to adjourn the debate, so that the noble
 492
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, the preparations on the part of the Indian Government to meet the scarcity in Bengal were not based merely on the wants of exceptional districts, but on the total number of the population in Bengal likely to stand in need of relief. The districts mentioned in the Question were consequently included within the scope of the measures taken.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that although the present premises might justly be described as overcrowded, inconvenient, and insalubrious, they were not unsafe. Steps were, he might add, being taken to secure additional premises in the neighbourhood, which he hoped would be sufficient for temporary occupation; he believed, however, if would ultimately be necessary to obtain a new building altogether for the accommodation of the Department.
 MR. KAVANAGH  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he can give the House any information as to the condition and progress of the works for repairing a breach in the sea pavement of the pier of Dunmore Harbour, County Waterford, for which a sum of public money was granted about seven years ago; and, whether, if such does not appear to be satisfactory, he will take steps to have the necessary repairs carried out to ensure the preservation of a structure which was of incalculable value not only to the inhabitants of the district, but to a large number of fishermen who resort there in the season?
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether any and what number of vessels loaded with arms and ammunition for the Ashantees were detained in British ports or captured off the Gold Coast by the British squadron?
 MR. O'DONNELL  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether the Government will be prepared to meet the emergency of intense and wide-spread famine declaring itself in those Bengal districts, such as Hooghly and Burdwan, hitherto classed as seats of merely partial distress, and numbering a population of upwards of fourteen millions?
 MR. G. BENTINCK  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether, looking to the serious disasters which have happened to some of Her Majesty's ships from default of Navy ground-tackle, and to the manifest importance of providing the best and most trustworthy anchor for use in the Royal Navy, he will state what practical objection exists, if any, to carrying out the proposal indicated in Mr. Trotman's letter of 13th January 1873, seeing that a trial of three other competing anchors, viz. the "Admiralty," "Rodgers'," and the "Improved Martin's" anchors, is shortly to take place on board Her Majesty's ship "Devastation," now at Spithead?
 MR. HUNT : The trial by the  Devastation Devastation
 MR. HUNT : The Admiralty is not aware of any vessels so laden having been detained in British ports, and no vessels were captured off' the Gold Coast. Four vessels—two British and two foreign—were for a short time detained for irregular proceedings in connection with the blockade.
 Mr. J. LOWTHER  in reply, said, the whole question with respect to emigration to the Straits Settlements had for some time been occupying the attention of the Colonial Office. As to the ordinance relative to the emigration of Chinese labourers, some amendment of it was evidently required. The Correspondence on the subject was not yet complete, and until it assumed a complete shape, he could not say whether it could be produced, nor what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Government in the matter.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, the Question related to an institution which was under the control of the War Department and not of the Irish Government. If the Question were
 484
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : The repair of piers in no way concerns the Irish Government—it belongs to the Board of Works, which is a Department under the control of the Treasury the Question, therefore, should be addressed to and answered by the Secretary to the Treasury In the Session of 1868–9 a sum of £964 was voted for the repair of considerable damage which had been done to the works of Dunmore Harbour by the unusually severe storms of the preceding winters. That sum was found insufficient for the complete repair of the injury done to the sea pavement, and further sums have since been voted to make good the damage done by storms during the progress of the works of repair.
 482
 MR. COOPE  asked the Postmaster-General, Whether any, and, if so what, steps are being taken to provide suitable premises for the Savings Bank Department of the Post Office, in lieu of the present unsafe and overcrowded offices?
 MR. M'LAGAN  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Government is in possession of any information respecting the number and position of British subjects in Bilbao; whether Her Majesty's Consul is shut in; and, whether any steps have been taken to communicate with him, and to insure duo respect to the British Flag from the Commanders of both the combatants?
 MR. BOURKE : The only information which is to be found at the Foreign Office with regard to the British population at Bilbao is contained in Consular Reports, which I have had an opportunity of looking at since the previous night. From them I learn that the British population at Bilbao in ordinary times is supposed to be between two and three hundred. We know, however, that since the war broke out, a great number of British subjects have left that place; consequently, the number there at present is not known. Her Majesty's Consul at Bilbao has lately informed Mr. Bayard, our Minister at Madrid, that on the 10th February he had taken all the precautions he possibly could to provide for the protection of British subjects at Bilbao; that he informed both the General commanding the Carlists and the General commanding the Republicans that he had provided a house near his own, with a largo enclosure, where British subjects might take refuge, in case the city was besieged; and that both
 486 Ariel
 MR. MELLOR  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Why the detailed statement showing the cost of Furniture and the repair of Furniture provided for each public office is not given in the Estimates of Expenditure for the year ending March next year; and, if he will consent to supply the information by the issue of a separate Return?
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that the detailed statement in question had been omitted from the Estimates by direction of his predecessor. Any information, however, which the hon. Gentleman wished to obtain on the subject he might procure at the Office of Works.
 MR. PALMER  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will lay upon the Table of the House, a Copy of the Correspondence between the Governor of Singapore and others, with the Colonial Office, relative to the Singapore Emigration Act; and, whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to repeal or amend that Act?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, the subject was one to which his attention had been directed, but he hoped the noble Lord would forgive him if he declined to anticipate the Financial Statement by giving a more explicit answer to his Question.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he understood the matter had been disposed of to a certain extent by his predecessor; but it was likely to be brought under his consideration, although it had not yet been submitted to him. When it was it should receive his best attention.
 VISCOUNT MACDUFF  asked. Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If it is his intention to remit the tax on farmers' carts and shepherds' dogs in Scotland?
 MR. OWEN LEWIS  asked the Secretary of State for War, If it is true that the Catholic inmates of the Royal Military Hospital at Kilmainham, Dublin, are obliged to leave the Hospital in all weathers and at all seasons to attend Divine Service, though many of them are advanced in life and infirm, while their Protestant comrades, though little more than one-fifth of the whole number of pensioners, have a chapel and resident chaplain of their own religion in the Hospital?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : If the hon. Member means by "obliged" that there is any compulsion put upon the Catholic inmates, he is entirely incorrect. The only obligation is a moral obligation which they may feel themselves. The Roman Catholic pensioners who are able to march, go to a chapel half-a-mile distant if the weather permit. The sick and infirm do not go, and the aged pensioners go how and when they please. Episcopalian pensioners, who number 29 per cent of the whole, have a chapel and chaplain on the premises. The chaplain of Kilmainham performs service in the chapel for the troops stationed in the neighbouring barracks without remuneration. The Roman Catholic chaplain receives £50 per annum for the inmates of the Hospital, and is chaplain to the troops in his parish, receiving the authorized allowance.
 MR. O'CLEARY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the Correspondence received from Her Majesty's Representative in Spain and from other sources, relative to the increasing magnitude of the Carlist War, does not warrant Her Majesty's Government in recognizing the belligerent rights of the troops of Don Carlos, and what correspondence has passed upon the subject with other Powers?
 MAJOR BEAUMONT , in rising to move, "That in the opinion of this House, the Reserves for the defence of this Country should be formed of men who have passed through the ranks of the regular Army," said, the Army Re-form Bill which was brought in by Lord Cardwell in 1870, ought to be known—and, he thought, would in future be known—more as a Bill for the Abolition of Purchase than as a Bill for the Re-organization of the Army. Moreover, it was considered by hon. Members generally that it ought to have been the means of promoting economical administration in the Army; and some regret was expressed that more prominence had not been given to the question of Army Reform. While saying this, however, he did not mean to ignore the
 497 498 499 500 501 d 502
 MAJOR DICKSON  said, that every practical soldier, whether within the House or out of it, would agree with him, that there was a growing feeling in the House and in the country that the short enlistment system was slowly but surely destroying the strength of the Army. It was increasing desertion to an extent never known before, and it was denuding the regiments of old soldiers. The Duke of Wellington declared that the old soldiers were the life, the soul, and the heart of the British Army, and yet they were, within 20 years of the death of that distinguished Captain, introducing the system which he strongly condemned, the result being that if a war broke out, our regiments as at present constituted would be quite unable to cope with Continental armies. He ventured, in 1870, in that House, to protest against the introduction of short enlistment; and he found that many of the evils he then predicted were gradually
 516
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I have very little to say, because any observations calling for remark relate mainly to what was done by the late Government, which is now represented by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and who has replied on the points calling for any explanation. No doubt, it is the desire of everyone that the Army, however constituted, should be thoroughly efficient; that we should get the best possible recruits; and it is equally desirable that our Reserves should be of such a character that we should be able to find them when we want them to do their duty to their country. Now, it has been admitted that, so far as our present Army of Reserve is concerned, that certainly is not the ease, and I can quite understand how the difficulty has arisen. When the Army of Reserve is called out by proclamation, in the case of a national emergency, it will stand on the same footing as the Regular Army—that is, a man who does not respond to the call is liable to be punished as a deserter; but sufficient provision is not made for putting your hand on the men in ordinary cases, or for controlling them when they volunteer for service—in such cases, for instance, as that in which they volunteer to take part in the Autumn Manœuvres. Last
 522 523 524 525 quasi
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the principle of selection, with a view to promotion, was never applied in the case of chaplains of the Forces, and that it was not the practice to raise one chaplain above the others, by exceptional advancement, for service in the field. Moreover, he was afraid that the livings at the disposal of the Crown were very few indeed, and as his right hon. Friend who had the disposal of them was not present, his hon. and gallant Friend would see that no answer could be given to that part of the Question.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the amount in question was an annually increasing item of expenditure. The apparent inconsistency arose in consequence of certain new arrangements as to the mode of keeping the accounts.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would at once admit the existence of a
 532
 GENERAL, Sir GEORGE BALFOUR  congratulated the right hon. Gentleman upon the great reduction which had taken place in the Vote for warlike stores, and thought that it might be reduced still lower. No greater evil could possibly happen to an Army than to have an abundance of stores of old and useless articles. He urged the desirability, on economical grounds, that an
 534
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the principle which the Treasury had laid down in all the Estimates was this—that the Department having control of the expenditure should bring the charge into their Estimates. It struck him that when they came to investigate the subject it would be found almost impossible to separate the charge for transport, for instance, required by one Service from what was required by the other. The subject had been carefully considered, and the only safe principle appeared to be that laid down by the Treasury.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT  believed the country would gain very much by the alteration, which would at the same time be a great boon to officers.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he would not detain the Committee long upon this very unsavoury and disagreeable subject, but the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Gourley) had taken the extraordinary course of moving an Amendment to compel the War Office to cut off the money necessary to carry out an Act of Parliament without repealing the Act itself. Now, if there were any body bound to obey the law, it was the Government. He had made inquiry into the working of these Acts, and he had found that the cases arising in towns which were under the Act were about 9 per 1,000, while in towns in which the Acts were in operation they only amounted to about 4 per 1,000. This was a proof that something was done, and so long as the Acts were in force he trusted that the House would vote the money to carry them out.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the case was as stated by the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down; but oven if it were not so, he did not see how the Committee could, until the next I vacancy occurred, reduce the salary of I the Protestant chaplain, as his was a
 537
 MR. OWEN LEWIS  thought that some arrangement might be come to which would be fair and satisfactory to all parties.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the hon. and gallant Member had started a proposition which was entirely foreign to the Amendment. However, if a proper representation were made, he had no objection to give the matter a fair consideration at the proper time; but he trusted that the hon. and gallant Member, who had moved the Amendment, would withdraw it.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, that by this Bill the Government sought to absorb the  corpus
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he would not object to the second reading; but considered that the clauses would require modification. There was a Bill of the right hon. and learned Member the Recorder of the City of London upon the larger subject of homicide before the House; and, upon the understanding that these Bills would be referred to the same Select Committee, he would offer
 540
 MR. STANLEY  hoped that the hon. and gallant Member would not persevere with his Motion as he thought the salary could not be reduced under the terms upon which the hospital had been founded. Not only that, but it had been paid, without question, for a great many years, and it would be unjust to alter it now at a moment's notice. A Committee had two years ago carefully inquired into the state of the two hospitals in question, and they had recommended no modification of the salaries of the chaplains. Kilmainham Hospital afforded a great deal of relief to a large number of men who had served their country, and as regarded the question of percentage it varied from time to time.
 MR. STANLEY  said, the allowances to adjutants were under consideration, and it was intended to assimilate those of adjutants in the auxiliary forces as far as possible to those in the Line. As to the amalgamation alluded to by his hon. and gallant Friend, it was intended to consolidate, because it was most desirable to avoid keeping up so many separate corps whose numbers were decreasing, and likewise to avoid the unnecessary expense of adjutants appointed when the numbers in the various corps were much higher than they were now. His right hon. Friend would endeavour to act with duo regard to all parties, and to local considerations.
 MR. STANLEY  stated that at an early date the proposals would be fully determined on, and the fullest information would be given hereafter.
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  said, that the arrangement proposed by his hon. and gallant Friend might be more economical than that now existing. The subject was one of great detail; but he would give his best attention to it, and he trusted that some satisfactory conclusion might be arrived at.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that the questions of recruiting and the Reserve, which were inseparably connected, had yet to be solved. Looking at the question practically, and believing the proposal of the hon. and gallant Member for South Durham (Major Beaumont) to be impracticable, he was not prepared to recommend its adoption. The object was practically to imitate the Prussians in having a strong Reserve, upon which we could lay our hands at any moment; but this, however desirable, would be impossible without the conscription, which never would be tolerated in this country. The short service of three years was equally impracticable; for to carry it into effect you must take in recruits below the age of 20, or even 18, and the result would be that the average age of the whole Army would be below 20. All the recruiting officers declared that by the time an Englishman attained the ago of 20 his mind was made up, and that not 1 in 100 had any other intention than to adopt the profession of arms. This was, therefore, an objection, in his mind, to shortening the term of service to three years. His hon. and gallant Friend had said that the pay and pension of the men must be increased, and with regard to the pay, the cost of every man in the Army Reserve had been put down by the late Secretary of War at £6, and he said he should be able under his plan to spend £12. The question, however, was whether the increase from £6 to £12 on the Reserve would be such an attraction as to draw to it large masses of recruits. With regard to pension, too, the hon. and gallant Member seemed to forget that any increase of pension, to be really worth anything, would be an enormous addition to the Estimates. It was a heavy item under the former system of long service, when fewer men lived to claim the pension. The three recommendations of the hon. and gallant Member would, therefore, in his opinion, practically break down. He agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend that 32,000 or 34,000 recruits would be required annually to keep up the Army to its proper strength. It had been pointed out that no less than 44,000 men had altogether been raised for all branches of military service last year. Not less than 29,000 of
 509 510 511 512
 MR. NAGHTEN , in advocating a higher rate of bounty and pay for Militiamen, said, that in consequence of the inadequacy of the present scale they were fast losing men. If a man enlisted now under the present system, by the substitution of six years' service for five, he would get less by £5 16 s 529
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY  said: The Government have no present intention of introducing a Bill for consolidating the Merchant Shipping Acts. I hope they will never attempt, by any measure, to specify in detail what is meant by seaworthiness as to model, hull, &c, or to affirm that seaworthiness should depend on any prescribed model. The erroneous information given by the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Plimsoll) in the case of the  Parga s. d Western Chief Western Ocean Somerset s Effort Lady Head Fountain
 GENERAL SHUTE  said, he rose for the purpose of making a few short, soldier's remarks. It was the great weakness of the military theorists of the day to urge the adoption of a slavish imitation of the military system of Prussia. Those who did so seemed to hint to for get that the system of that country was entirely founded upon conscription, and it was utterly impossible to adopt that system with advantage without consolation, which Englishmen would never have. First of all they must find men, which they had the greatest difficulty in doing, although they had reduced the standard of Infantry to 5 feet 4½ inches. Most of those enlisted were mere boys—many of them 16, though calling themselves 18—and they would not be made fit for the field in less than three or four years. The Prussians did not admit men for short service under 20 years of age, and who were able to march and carry their kits; but in our infantry regiments, he could state from observation that one-third the men would hardly be able to carry their rifles and ammunition in a campaign. In order to remedy that state of affairs, the first thing to be considered was our system of recruiting, and that must be encouraged in a more rational way than it had hitherto been. It had been the fashion of late to take all the loaves and fishes away from both officers and soldiers. They had thus nothing to look forward to, or to attach them to the service. They must improve the position of non-commissioned officers both as to pension and pay. They must also endeavour to re-adopt the system of giving bounty, considerably increase the bounty money,
 507 508
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether more than one opinion was obtained by the Colonial Office from the Law Officers of the Crown, or other legal advisers, respecting the Bill passed during the last Session of Parliament of the Dominion of Canada, for the purpose of empowering Committees of the Dominion House of Commons to examine witnesses under oath; if he will state whether there was any and, if any, what divergency between such opinions, and whether the advice given to Her Majesty with reference to that Bill is now considered to have been correct; and, whether there was any Correspondence between the Governor General of Canada and the Colonial Office on the subject, and if he will cause Copies of that Correspondence to be laid upon the Table?
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, he did not attach any importance whatever to the cuckoo cry of making the Army popular. It was not a question of making the Army popular, for he did not believe the Army was at all unpopular, but a question of organization; and while the labour market was in its present state—and the labour market was more likely to get dearer than cheaper—they would have difficulties in getting soldiers for the pay which was offered them. This was a serious question which affected both the safety and the policy of the country, and he could not conceive any subject of greater importance. They had been promised an Army Reserve, but after an experiment of four years-after the introduction of the short-service system, and after the British Army had suffered in its efficiency, they had got 7,000 men of Reserve. When they compared that number with the hundreds of thousands composing the Re-servos of Continental countries, it was so paltry that it was evident that the system had entirely and absolutely broken down. If they asked any old
 517 518
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON  believed that his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary would not oppose the second reading, but would, in Committee, move the insertion of certain clauses.
 MR. J. LOWTHER , in reply, said, that it was not in accordance with precedent to give any information respecting the Opinions of the Law Officers of the Crown, but that it was an error to suppose in the present case that there had been a divergence of opinion. Her Majesty's Government had every reason to believe that the Opinions given by the Law Officers were entirely correct.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN , in moving to reduce the Vote by the sum of £200, said, it appeared that the Protestant chaplain at Kilmainham received a salary of £250 per annum, whereas £50 per annum was the entire sum paid to the Roman Catholic priest who ministered to the spiritual wants of the in-pensioners of his own creed. This disparity was increased from the fact that those pensioners far out-numbered their Protestant brethren. He would much rather, if the forms of the House permitted, move to increase the salary of the Roman Catholic chaplain to the same amount which was paid the Protestant chaplain; but as he could not do that, it was only by the reduction of that gentleman's salary he could bring about the equality which he wished to see established.
 COLONEL NORTH , in recommending that the houses occupied by general officers, as in Chelsea Hospital and at Portsmouth, Devonport, and Chatham, should be furnished by the Government, and that officers should be charged a percentage on the outlay, as was the case under the Admiralty, said, that nearly twenty years ago he had brought this subject under the consideration of the House, and he thought some change was necessary. Take the case of Chelsea Hospital. The governorship of that institution had been vacant three times in three years. Sir John Pennefather had told him that it cost him £1,600 to get into the house then, though he only occupied it a year and nine months. Sir Sydney Cotton had to go through the same performance, though he only occupied the house a year and eight months. He hoped his right hon. Friend would give the matter his earnest consideration, so that such anomalous cases might not recur.
 COLONEL NORTH : And the sooner it was done the better. Instead of breaking up the 79th Highlanders, the Reserve Force should have been sent to the Gold Coast, by which the country would have been saved a considerable expense. He was afraid the Army of Reserve was a myth, for although it had been said to be in existence for several years they had never been seen in a body—on one occasion, however, about 250 of them attended the Autumn Manœuvres. He hoped the Government would pause before it adopted this three years' system. It came to this—that they had an Army consisting of men who might leave it after three years service, and who, if not allowed to do so, became discontented soldiers; they were to be encouraged in purchasing their discharges; and they had a Reserve of men who, when they were out, might disobey their officers as much as they pleased. If Englishmen would not stand conscription, they must pay for such an Army as could be depended upon. Changes, no doubt, might be suggested; but the expense must come out of the pockets of the ratepayers. What did they pay for recruits during the Crimean War? From £13 to £17 per man. As many as five regiments of Militia went to the Mediterranean during that war, and when they came back it was impossible to find a finer body of men in the Army. He was perfectly shocked to see some regiments; they were not to be compared to the soldiers they had 20 years ago, being for the most part more boys without stamina or anything else. According to a Return which he held in his hand, it appeared that of 24,000 recruits in one year, 14,000 had passed and upwards of 9,000 were rejected. What did the Royal Commission over which Lord Panmure presided in 1867 report? They said—
 "Recent events taught us that we must not rely in future on having time for preparation; wars would he sudden in their preparation and short in their duration, and woe to that country which was unprepared to defend itself against any contingency that might arise or any combination that might be formed against it. No doubt the measures that would he necessary might tend to increase the cost of the Army; but, considering the vast interests at stake and the wealth of the country, whatever that increased
 506
 COLONEL NORTH  said, it was a very strange state of things if the colonel of a regiment could not inflict punishment for insubordination without fear of the law.
 COLONEL NORTH , in calling attention to cases of soldiers who, whilst really guilty of desertion, were, under the existing system, only tried for being absent without leave, and therefore did not forfeit the advantages accruing to long service and good conduct, said, he wished to refer to the case of a man belonging to the Coast Guard, who, although he had been away from duty from July 8, 1872, till March 27, 1874, had been tried, not for desertion, but for absence without leave, and had been
 527
 COLONEL NORTH  expressed a hope that the number of good-service pensions in this department would be increased. There were at present only eight of them, and the number of officers was 943; three had received the honour of a K.C.B., 32 had been made Companions of the Bath, and no fewer than nine had received the Victoria Cross; 84 medical officers had served with the Gold Coast Expedition. The officers of the Marines, who were fewer in number, enjoyed more good-service pensions, and without wishing in any way
 528
 COLONEL NORTH  inquired whether some mode could not be devised for the reward of those chaplains for the Forces who had accompanied the Gold Coast Expedition. They could not be promoted unless the number of chaplains was augmented, and suggested whether some of the Crown livings might not be very properly and usefully devoted to that purpose? The chaplains who had accompanied the troops in Ashantee, he understood, had admirably performed their duty.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, there could he no doubt that it would be most advantageous to this country if they could have a reserve of old soldiers; but the first thing to secure was a real and substantial Army, which he was afraid at that moment they did not possess. There was an important difference between our Army and every Continental Army, because we had no conscription, and consequently no means of raising our strength, on an emergency, to any extent whatever. In 1854, the strength of the Army was 124,801, and there were actually serving 122,464 men, leaving a deficiency of 2,337. In 1855, when the Crimean War broke out, the Army was raised to 189,956 men, and the number serving-was 143,298, leaving a deficiency of 46,658. In 1856, the Army was raised to 205,808, and there were 155,406 serving, leaving a deficiency of 50,402. In 1857, on the conclusion of the War, there was an immediate reduction of 60,000 men, the number voted being 144,518: but the number actually serving was 149,538, an excess of 5,020; but it had hardly been made before the Indian Mutiny broke out. In 1858, the Army was raised to 169,413, and the deficiency was 21,881. Then came the Franco-German War. On the 1st of August, 1870, they had an Army of 167,979; the number serving was 163,386, and the deficiency on the outbreak of the war was 4,593. In consequence of the outbreak of the war, the Army was increased by 20,000 men; but the deficiencies were—on the 1st of October, 16,915; on November 1, 14,530; on December 1, 12,741; on January 1, 1871, 9,606; on February 1, 7,255; on March 1, 5,283. In the same year, on the 14th of July, the French Reserves were called out, and on the 16th of July the mobilisation of the German Army took place, that force—amounting to between 400,000 and 500,000 men—being officially declared ready for war on the 1st
 504
 MR. BOURKE : No question has as yet arisen requiring Her Majesty's Government to consider whether belligerent rights should be accorded to the followers of Don Carlos, and there has been no Correspondence on the subject with foreign Governments.
 MR. CHARLES LEWIS , who had the following Motion on the Paper:—
 "That in the opinion of this House, the continued imposition of the Income Tax, except in time of wars or some great national emergency, is unjust and impolitic, and it is advisable that such Tax should be gradually reduced and further altogether repealed at the earliest possible period,"
 MR. GOURLEY  said, he took exception to the amount expended in carrying out the provisions of the Contagious Diseases Acts, and would move that the Vote be reduced by that amount.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  thought an explanatory Appendix would be found a serviceable addition towards the comprehension of the Estimates.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR , while approving the change, suggested that in future particulars of the Vote should be given more in detail.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he could not concur in the view that there was at present any greater deficiency than there had always been in the effective strength of the Army, as compared with the established strength. Although the House had been told that the Militia was a great feeder of the Army, the information which was laid before the Recruiting Commission led him very much to doubt the accuracy of that assertion. During
 513 514 515
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  expressed a hope that the passing of the Bill would not shut out the claims of the civilians from being fully considered.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  seconded the Resolution.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, there was no difficulty about calling them out, but as to whether they were amenable to punishment for breach of discipline.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, that Mr. Ayrton, the late Judge Advocate General, had drafted a clause
 505
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, the House would feel much indebted to his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for South Durham (Major Beaumont) for raising a discussion of which he might say  Quot homines, tot sententiœ 519 520 521
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN , having had something to do with the transfer of these charges, explained that while the formation of a pay department had been resolved on, the scheme had not yet been submitted in a revised form to the Treasury. Next year it would doubtless be set forth in the Estimates.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, with respect to the change in the Militia bounty, he had remarked that the statements on the subject, however accurate as far as they went, were very incomplete, He saw the letter signed by Lord Charles Kerr, and it appeared to him very extraordinary that an adjutant of Militia, responsible for the recruiting of his regiment, should without any representation to the War Office, have addressed such a sensational communication to  The Times
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  wished the hon. Member for Winchester (Mr. Naghten) to understand that he did not blame the Militia for not comprehending that they would gain by the stoppage of rations the pay and clothing being fixed by Act of Parliament, it was impossible to announce the other parts of the plan simultaneously with the alteration in the term of service which Parliament had sanctioned, and on which future recruiting must be founded. Steps were taken, though unfortunately rather late, to announce what was intended, since which there had, he trusted, been no misapprehension.
 SIR HENRY HAVELOCK  said, that from his local knowledge, he wished to point out that, although the number of Roman Catholics in Kilmainham during the week might be greater than the number of Protestants, yet that on Sundays the state of things was reversed, inasmuch as the Protestant chaplain had the troops from the barracks in the neighbourhood to minister to.
 SIR HENRY HAVELOCK  also thought that an arrangement might be come to which would meet equally the demands of all denominations by a portion of one of the numerous rooms in the hospital being fitted up for the use of the Roman Catholics on Sundays.
 COLONEL SIR HENRY WILMOT  said, he wished to call the attention of of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War to the present unsatisfactory position of non-commissioned officers, in the hope that something might be done to improve it, so that an inducement should be held out to such men to re-engage at the expiration of their time of service. The non-commissioned officers under the old system were as fine a body of men as ever were uniform; but, under the present system, he was afraid that such men would disappear altogether, there being no inducement whatever to them to re-engage in the Army, while the inducements held out to them to become civilians were very great. He should recommend, in the first place, that every sergeant should have a room to himself, it not being right that a married man, holding a responsible position, should be compelled to occupy a room shared by another married couple. He would also recommend that they should be offered more advantageous terms of pay; that they should have an increase of pay after six years' service in the event of their reengaging, and a further increase on reengaging for a third term of six years, at the expiry of which, or after 18 years' service, they should be entitled to a pension. Until the non-commissioned officers had their present position improved so as to offer them sufficient inducement to serve in the Army as a profession, with a fair prospect of a comfortable retirement in the end, he was afraid that the system of short service would break down, particularly in so far as they were concerned.
 MR. HOLKER , in seconding the Motion, said, he believed the measure to be good and useful. He would suggest that the Bill should be so altered as to include other persons than mothers of infants.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he was aware of the claim to which the hon. Member had alluded. It did not, however go to the principle of the Bill. If there was a real case of hardship it was right that there should be an opportunity of discussing it. He would venture to advise the House to read the Bill a second time. A sufficient interval would be given for the consideration of the subject, and a clause could be introduced in Committee, if necessary.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he was aware of the case to which reference had been made, and of others which were not, perhaps, quite so bad. A practice had grown up of trying men for absence without leave rather than for desertion, and it arose in some measure from an opinion that, as familiarity with crime led to crime, so if men became accustomed to constant trials for desertion, they would come to consider it a venial offence. Yet, if they were to search for motives, it would be found impossible to suppose that a man, who stayed away for two years, did not intend to desert. With the information he had obtained, he quite agreed that such a case as the one to which the gallant officer alluded was carrying the theory too far. It often happened that a soldier lost all the advantages of good conduct badges on account of some petty larceny he had committed, while the man who had undoubtedly been guilty of desertion might, if tried by a regimental court-martial for absence without leave, retain those rewards. It seemed to him that this might cause a great deal of injustice, and he thought that when a man was undoubtedly a deserter he should be tried for the offence which he had actually committed.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  pointed out that while there was a decrease in the other details of this Vote, the same sum was put down for the apprehension of deserters.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  remarked that the allowance for travelling expenses made to adjutants in the Volunteer service was only 5 s s 533
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he had on a former occasion called attention to the subject of the promotion of officers from the Militia into the Line and asked his right hon. Friend to consider the matter. A letter from an "Officer in the Militia" had since been published, stating that he had been mistaken. But the statement he made was this—that two young gentlemen went up for examination, of whom the one passed exceedingly well and entered the Army as a sub-lieutenant, the other had been plucked, but afterwards was promoted from the Militia into the same regiment of the Line as lieutenant over the head of the man who had passed the successful examination. The other day he was in a railway carriage with some gentlemen of his acquaintance, and this matter became the subject of conversation. A young gentleman, with whom he was not acquainted, hearing what was said, remarked that it was a very hard case, and then told his own story. "I was twice 'ploughed,'" said he. "I went up with a friend of mine, who passed admirably. He got nearly the highest marks. We are both now in a most distinguished regiment. I have passed
 530 The Times The Times 531
 MR. CHARLEY , in moving that the Bill be now road the second time, said,
 539
 MR. CHARLEY , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, that the object of it was to mitigate the severity of the punishment of this crime; and, if possible, to prevent the committal of it. The Bill was founded upon the unanimous recommendation of the Commissioners of 1866, and now an effort was made to carry that recommendation into effect. He would be glad to refer the Bill to a Select Committee.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said: I have every reason to hope that the new building will be completed and opened to the public in a year's time; and I am happy to say that, when completed, the buildings will be large enough to accommodate the whole of the National collection of pictures, including these that are now housed in the South Kensington Museum.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said: It is quite true that one of the obligations under which the Bethnal Green Museum was in 1868 transferred from the Trustees to the Crown was that the vacant spaces around it should be laid out and permanently maintained by the Board of Works as a flower garden for the recreation of the people. Owing to some inadvertence the Board of Works was not made aware of this condition until last June; and when it was, my right hon. Predecessor, Mr. Ayrton, gave instructions that a sum of £700 should be inserted in the Estimates of the ensuing year for the commencement of the garden. Matters stood thus when I acceded to office. But, considering the uncertainty which always prevails as to the time when Estimates are voted, I feared that another year might in this way be lost. So, with the sanction of the Treasury, I ordered the works to be begun. They have been begun, and will be pushed forward with the utmost energy, so that as soon as possible the people of the East End of London will have these gardens—as is their undoubted right—finished and made available for their recreation.
 MR. BASS , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, he hoped, considering the number of new Members who had recently been elected, that the House would allow him to sketch the history of the measure. Two years ago, at the instance of a County Court Judge of great ability and eminence, he undertook to bring this subject before the House. That gentleman—Mr. George Russell—when he entered on the duties of his office was an ardent advocate of imprisonment for debt, but subsequent experience had induced him to lament it as one of the greatest evils in existence. There was a discussion upon the second reading of the Bill introduced in 1872. The Bill was negatived by a majority of 102; but it was suggested by the Government of that day that a Committee should be appointed to consider this important subject, and in the early part of last Session a Committee was appointed for that purpose. He (Mr. Bass) had been accused of making that Committee an unfair one; but he was not responsible for the nomination of the Committee.
 546 s 547 s 548 "The very best thing that could happen to a working man is that he should not he able to obtain credit as he does now." "The present system of credit is perfectly shocking. I have had 30 years' daily and hourly experience, and I can confidently say that there is not one case out of 100 entered in our Court where the defendant had the least reason to incur the debt or the plaintiff to trust him the present system is a curse, and an Act of Parliament is required to mitigate the evil." The Times "Look for one thing at the working of the County Courts. One half of their business would be swept away at a stroke if the custom of giving credit were to disappear." "What is the explanation of the frauds in the adulteration of articles of food sold to the poor? Why, as often as not, at least one cause is that the customer must take the article which is offered to him at the price at which it is offered." s d d 549 s d s s s 550 s d s s
 MR. LOPES , in rising to move, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, he did so because he believed that if the measure contained in the Bill of the hon. Gentleman became law it would entirety destroy the efficiency and vitality of the
 551 s 552 553 s 554
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he thought it would not be right, however anxious the House was to close the debate, that they should proceed to a division
 570 bonâ fide 571 572 573
 MR. BASS  said, he admitted that the Bill was not logical. The Committee said they must abolish imprisonment for debt by degrees; and therefore it was that, instead of asking the House to abolish imprisonment altogether, he only proposed to abolish it in respect of debts under £5. The evils of the present system were clearly proved before the Committee, where it was shown that in some cases men were imprisoned eight times for one small debt, and the object of his Bill was to remedy that state of things.
 COLONEL BERESFORD  supported the Bill, on the ground that even a small instalment of reform was desirable.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  asked the First Commissioner of Works, When the building which is being added to the National Gallery will be completed; and whether it will suffice for the exhibition of all the pictures belonging to the National Gallery?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he was correctly reported by "The Times" newspaper to have said at Buckingham this year, that Ireland is—
 "being ruled by coercive legislation of the most severe and most stringent Kind,… I call it severe and stringent legislation because I can find fat no Coercion. Acts ever passed for Ireland provisions of so severe a character as I find in the existing legislation, and which will go on until the year 1875:" "Ireland is really governed by the most stringent coercive Act that ever yet has existed." "Ireland at this moment, I believe I may say, is governed by these laws, which in severity,—I am not saying that the severity is not necessary: I refrain from entering on any question of that kind,—but is governed by laws of coercion and stringent severity that do not exist in any other quarter of the globe;"
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I. should like to ask one further Question—namely, whether the Prime Minister does not think that it is part of his duty—["Order!"]—to remove from the legislation of the country—["Order!"]—any severity which is unnecessary, and therefore whether it is not also his duty to form his opinion upon that subject?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I wish to ask whether the Prime Minister declines to answer me?—["Order!"]
 MR. BROGDEN  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, When the Award of the Mixed Commission with respect to British Mineral Oil Claims in France will be given effect to by the Government of France?
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker—It is some time since the observations referred to by the noble Lord were made, and a good deal has happened in the interval. I have not had an opportunity of examining the report of these observations in  The Times 544
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I beg respectfully to ask your opinion, Sir, whether it is within the understanding upon which Questions are permitted to be put in this House that questions involving the gravest subject of legislation should be thus submitted to Her Majesty's Ministers when the House has no legitimate opportunity of expressing its opinions on the replies that are given?
 MR. RITCHIE  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it is true that one of the conditions on which the Bethnal Green Museum was handed to the Board of Works, was that the vacant space in which the Museum stands should be laid out as pleasure gardens, and permanently kept up as such for the recreation of the people of London; and, if so, what has been done in fulfilment of that condition?
 MR. G. CLIVE  wished merely to state, as a Judge who had presided for some years over a Metropolitan County Court for a district second to none in population and importance, that the Bill was an injudicious one, and that the arguments which had been used in support of it were fallacious. Between himself and Mr. Whitmore, his successor, there were 26 years' experience of the Southwark County Court, and both Mr. Whitmore and Mr. Herbert, the Judge of the Hereford County Court, were strongly opposed to the Bill. Surely, the hon. and learned Member for Taunton (Sir Henry James) would not think of comparing the authority of Mr. George Russell, a very recent appointment, with
 567
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Lopes) was quite correct in stating that he had opposed the Bill of his hon. Friend the Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) when it was introduced in 1872, and he had done so because he then took, what his hon. and learned Friend would allow him without offence to say he had now taken, a superficial view of the simple legal question, and had not treated it as a matter involving grave questions of a social and economic character. Indeed, he had carried that superficial view to such an extent that when he entered the Committee he was strongly opposed to the abolition of imprisonment for debt. He did not yield to the blandishments of his hon. Friend the Member for Derby, but he yielded to the evidence placed before the Committee, and the result was that, before the labours of the Committee concluded, he came to the conclusion that the power of imprisonment for small debts was an evil winch called for a remedy, and that it ought to be got rid of altogether. He was satisfied that the great majority of the House could have no sympathy with the dishonest debtor, and there could be no wish to render him assistance in evading the obligations he had incurred. This, however, was only the sentimental view of the question, although it was invariably used as an argument for maintaining imprisonment for debt. There could be no virtue in imprisonment for debt in itself; there could be even no virtue in County Courts themselves if they were maintained as a remedy against an evil. When the hon. and learned Member for Frome (Mr. Lopes) said this was striking a blow at the vitality of the County Court, he would ask the hon. and learned Member what was that vitality? The County Court was not the forum for settling differences between litigants so much as it was a great debt-collecting office. It was used entirely by creditors who were traders, as against the honest portion of the community, on a reckless system of credit. If the evil could be
 556 557 s s s s s 558 s d 559 560
 MR. J. LOWTHER : The attention of the Government has been drawn to this subject, but they have not received an official confirmation of the telegraphic
 545
 MR ROEBUCK  considered the question one of great importance to a large portion of the community, including not merely the interests of the trading classes, but the interests of the working men themselves. He maintained that the working classes would be materially injured if the alteration proposed by the present Bill should be carried into effect. The law was that a person who
 568 v 569
 MR. SERJEANT SIMON  said, he should vote for the second reading of the Bill upon the grounds slated in the Report of the Committee. His hon. and learned Friend who had just spoken seemed to have ignored these grounds altogether. At the same time, he confessed that he did not think the Bill of the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) was a perfect measure. He (Mr. Serjeant Simon) thought it should have gone further and abolished imprisonment for the non-payment of a debt altogether. It had been stated that the imprisonment was not for debt, but for fraud; but it was impossible to disguise the fact that, practically, a man was punished for not paying his debts. If a man was to be punished for fraud, why was he not put upon his trial for that offence in the ordinary way, instead of being condemned in this summary manner by a Judge? He could not accept the allegation of the hon. and learned Member for Preston (Mr. Holker) that the law on this subject was equal as regarded the rich and the poor. If a man owed more than £50 he could go to the Court of Bankruptcy, and on paying 10 s s 564 s s s d s s s d
 MR. SAMUDA  asked the First Commissioner of Works, If he is aware that a notice has lately been put up in Victoria Park, near the Victoria Park Railway Station, offering to let ground in
 542
 MR. EYTON , who had given Notice to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the Land Tax ought to he assessed on the Poors Rate valuation thereof now in force instead of on the original valuation."
 MR. BOURKE : The French Minister of Commerce and Agriculture laid on the Table of the Assembly, on the 28th of March, a Bill providing for a grant of £14,000 for the payment of claims relative to oils imported from this country. This is the latest news we have on the subject.
 MR. SAMPSON LLOYD  wished, as a new Member, to crave the indulgence of the House while he adverted to one or two points which had either been omitted or insufficiently treated by previous speakers. If the question before the House were the maintenance of a system oppressive on the poor and not oppressive on the rich, he would be a sincere
 565 566
 MR. W. H. SMITH  in reply, said, that as the Question concerned the Office of Woods, it would be right that he should answer it instead of the First Commissioner. He had not yet been able personally to inform himself on the subject; but in the course of a few days he hoped to do so, and he would give his hon. Friend every information.
 MR. FORSYTH  desired to remind the House that the decision of the Committee of last year was opposed to the measure now under discussion. The Committee agreed to two Resolutions—that upon the hearing of any judgment summons, the Judge should inquire whether there were any other debts, and the debtor should be required, within such time as the Court might direct, to deliver a full and true account of all the debts due from him, and of his means of payment, and the Judge was thereon to make order for payment of the debt, either in full or by way of instalment, or by execution against the goods of the debtor, as should seem to him just. The other Resolution was that such sums of money as the debtor might be ordered to pay, and the produce of the sales under execution, should be brought into Court, and distributed rateably among all the creditors. The Committee reported that on their recommendations being adopted it would he expedient that the power of imprisonment for debt as now exercised by County Court Judges should be abolished. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) did not, however, embody them in his Bill.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Question put by the noble Lord was not out of Order. At the same time, the Prime Minister would have been quite entitled to decline to answer a Question of that character, as an answer might involve argument and debate.
 MR. HOLKER  said, he had not read the evidence given before the Committee or the Petitions presented to the House, but he thought that without doing so one could come to a right conclusion on the subject under consideration. It was desirable, in the first place, to have a clear notion of what the existing law was. They had heard a great deal about imprisonment for debt; but, in the true sense of the word, imprisonment for debt existed no longer in this country. Formerly, a creditor could keep his unfortunate debtor in prison until the debt was paid or until his death, if he were not able to pay. The severity of that law was mitigated by various Acts of Parliament; but that which was a blot and disgrace upon our Judicial System was not finally removed until the passing of the Act of 1869, a measure of a most beneficial character, by which imprisonment for debt was totally abolished. It was not the case that there was one law for the rich and another for the poor, or that the power of sending a man to prison was confined in its operation to these who came before the County Courts. The law was that no man should be imprisoned for debt, but that dishonest debtors should have punishment inflicted upon them. Before an order could be obtained to send a debtor to prison, the creditor must show that his debtor had the means of paying, and a man could now only be imprisoned, and then only for a period of six weeks, for not paying that which he had the means of paying. Such was the law, and it related to all debtors alike, whether they owed a thousand pounds or a thousand pence. The debtor who had the means of paying, and who was sent to prison as a punishment for not paying, could by discharging the debt release himself at any time within the six weeks, and in nine cases out of ten the money was paid and the debtor did not go to prison at all. He saw no injustice in the existing law, no harshness, and indeed nothing deserving the censure which had been passed upon it by the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) and the hon. and learned Member for Taunton (Sir Henry James). The law gave to creditors of this country a certain share of security.
 561 562 non constat 563 s s
 MR. WILLIAM M'ARTHUR  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the attention of the Government has been called to a statement in the newspapers that—
 "The Sovereignty of the Fiji Islands has been formerly ceded by King Thokambau to the British Crown, and that Mr. Layard, the British Consul, has accepted the cession, subject to the ratification of the Home Government:"
 MR. BROMLEY-DAVENPORT  said, he should like to know the moaning of the Bill, for he thought it was one of the vaguest ever brought before the House. What did it purpose to do? So far as he could see or understand its scope neither the living nor the dead were to have any rest. He saw nothing in it which would prevent the Commissioners from coining to any hon. Member's churchyard and disinterring his grandfather, for under the large provisions of the Bill the Commissioners would have the power to open any tomb. The Bill, moreover, might have the effect of increasing the burdens of local taxation, and that ought not to be lightly done, and for those reasons he should vote against the second reading.
 MR. DILIWYN  said, in support of the measure, that if some of the clauses of the Bill required to be restricted in their operation, all that was necessary could be done in Committee; and if they were to wait until the Government brought in a Bill, they would have to wait a long time. He had no doubt the feeling of the country and of the House was that some protection ought to be afforded to ancient monuments, and that was the opinion that would be expressed by those who voted for the second reading of the Bill. Seeing that many old monuments had been seriously injured, and that it was high time that they should be secured from the wilful depredations to which they had hitherto been exposed, he hoped the principle would be approved and that the Bill would be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. LOPES , in supporting the Bill, said, he had always been an opponent of the Act of 1870, but that having become law, he thought the Bill of the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. Morley) was a necessary adjunct. Up to 1870 the effect of marriage on the personal property of the wife was to vest it in her husband, who was liable to pay the debts of his wife; but when the Bill of 1870 was under consideration,
 609
 MR. STAVELEY HILL  said, that he had received many complaints relating to the flaw in the Act of 1870, which caused great injustice to creditors. Under the present law, a woman might contract debts to any amount, and then, if she afterwards married a man without a settlement, the creditor had no resource. This was a  casus omissus
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he could have wished that the Bill had been expressed in terms more apt and proper to give effect to the object sought to be attained; but still it hit what was clearly a blot in the existing law. Before the Act of 1870, a man marrying a woman possessed of property acquired that property, unless it were settled on her, but he became liable for her debts. In 1870 two amendments, or perhaps he should rather say alterations, were made in the law, the one giving the means of protecting certain property of the married woman from the husband, and enacting that it should be held to be her separate property; and the other providing that the woman's husband should not be liable after marriage for any debts she might have contracted before marriage. The consequence was, that in many cases the husband acquired all a woman's property, while her creditors lost any
 613
 MR. O'CONOR , in moving as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, he opposed the Bill on the ground that the proposed change in respect of the time for shooting game in Ireland was made at a most inopportune moment. But he was also of opinion that the change was not desirable either in the interest of the preservers and shooters of game, or of the tenants upon whoso land the game was to be found. The Bill consisted of two clauses, which dealt with two different classes of game—grouse and partridges. As regarded grouse, the rule in England was to commence grouse shooting on August 12, while in Ireland it did not commence until the 20th. He agreed that it would be desirable, if possible, that the shooting in both countries should commence upon the same day, because of the facility which the difference in time now gave to poachers for poaching game in Ireland, and exposing it for sale before the day on which the shooting commenced in that country. But the real question was whether the grouse were fit to be shot on August 12 or not? It was most desirable that that question should be considered by a Committee appointed solely for that purpose, so that the House should have before it the opinions of persons well conversant with the subject upon which they might then proceed to legislate. The noble Lord (Viscount Crichton) had stated that the matter was considered by the Committee which sat last year; and he had made it a strong point that this Bill was founded upon the Report made by that Committee. He (Mr. O'Conor) admitted that that was so, but he denied
 617 618
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, it was with grief and disappointed feelings he had listened to the observations of his hon. Friend who had just sat down, with whom in the last Parliament he had often taken sweet counsel, and he thought his hon. Friend had not come back to this Parliament the man he was in the last. His hon. Friend who had just spoken said the last House of Commons was a House of Spoliation; but his hon. Friend himself was vitiated by the spirit of the last Parliament, for by the course he had pursued he had tried to advocate the most unblushing, the most extravagant system of spoliation, that even he (Mr. Bentinck) could conceive. This was a Bill to protect, against the ignorance, it might be, of a proprietor, but more often of tenants, bailiffs of owners of property, and ignorant labourers, property of national interest which might be of priceless
 582
 MR. MARTEN , in moving as an Amendment, "That the Bill be read a second time that day six months," said, the Act of 1870 was the result of several years' consideration, both in that and the other House of Parliament. He objected to the Bill under notice as being likely to re-introduce a former state of things, with regard to which very strong expressions had been used by the advocates of the Act of 1870 with reference to the position of married women in relation to property. It was said that marriage was equivalent to the forfeiture of their property; but that did not fairly represent the state of the law on the subject. It would be more correct to say that the right of property was suspended during the continuance of the marriage. It was necessary that this distinction should be borne in mind in dealing with this question. And so with regard to the liabilities of the wife. If an action were brought after marriage in respect of liabilities incurred by the wife before marriage; if judgment were obtained during the continuance of the marriage, the husband, as representing both, was held to be responsible, and the liability was limited to the continuance of the marriage. This Bill would introduce a novel principle with regard to the relation of husband and wife; every woman would be treated on her marriage as dead in law, and as if her husband were her executor; just as women entering religious houses had been held to be dead and the heads of those houses had sued their own executors, sometimes bringing and maintaining actions against the relatives for their property. That state of things would be most objectionable, for it held the husband liable at any distance of time for what he had received; and while a woman might be allowed to make a present of a thousand
 610 611
 MR. MELDON  held that piecemeal legislation never worked satisfactory, and on that ground he was opposed to proceeding further with the Bill. The Act of 1870 required amendment in other respects, and it was highly inconvenient dealing with the subject in the limited manner proposed by the Bill. Although acceding to the principle put forward, he did not agree with those who wished to extend the rights of creditors over property  bonâ fide 614
 MR. MELDON  said, the alteration which was proposed in the law relative to the commencement of the season for grouse in Ireland would be very prejudicial to the interests of sportsmen themselves. It must be admitted that Leland at one period afforded very little sport in
 620
 MR. M'LAREN : Representing one of the cities to be affected by this Bill, I desire to say a few words. I have received a Petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Edinburgh unanimously agreeing to the principle of the Bill. Some time ago I presented a Petition numerously signed from the inhabitants of the city and county of Edinburgh, likewise expressing approval of the measure, and I have just received a Petition in its favour from the Trade Protection Society, numbering 1,300 persons. All the gentlemen who sanctioned
 606
 SIR EDMUND ANTROBUS  said, that he should have taken small exception to the Bill had the operation of it been confined to the monuments named in the Schedule: but the Bill would do a good deal in addition to what was indicated by the Schedule. For instance, there was not a person living on Salisbury Plain who would not be liable to be called upon at any time to defend his property against the attacks of these Commissioners, and it was this that he objected to. It was also a departure from the ordinary practice of the House to authorize the invasion of the rights of private property by such a body; but to that he should not have any particular objection, if it were not for the unqualified and unrestricted power it was proposed to confer. If the Bill as it stood were put into operation, he did not believe the farmers in his neighbour-
 588 589 The Times
 MR. SYNAN  remarked that, as regarded a part of Ireland, there was, no doubt, a great deal to be said in favour of this Bill. The question resolved itself pretty much into one of locality. In the North of Ireland the shooting might be advantageously accelerated, and with respect to some counties in the South and East of Ireland, probably the acceleration of the day which was proposed by the Bill would be of use as far as partridges were concerned. With respect to the West of Ireland, however, the noble Lord (Viscount Crichton), if he looked into the evidence taken before the Committee last year, would find that the proposed change was not applicable to that part of the country. The noble Lord had said that if the grouse were not strong enough to be shot on the
 619
 MR. ANDERSON  said, he desired only to make an explanation to the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry). He was sorry he should have said anything at which cither he or any other Home Ruler could take offence. It was not intended; for he said he welcomed
 607
 MR. ANDERSON , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said: It is now just 21 years since the present betting law was passed. The Bill was introduced by Sir Alexander Cockburn, then Attorney General, and the speech he made on that occasion so entirely met the assent of this House, that it passed through both Houses without any discussion. Why Scotland was exempted from the operation of the Bill I have been unable to discover; but I am very-sure that if Sir Alexander Cockburn and the Parliament of that day had been aware of the result of that exemption, it would never have been made. For a considerable time the Act was not put strongly in force in England, but for some years back it has been actively carried out, and the result has been not by any means to put down the system for the
 596 597 The Times The Standard The Sportsman The Sporting Life 598 The Sportsman The Sporting Clipper "Three splendid speculations. Great success. For the trifling stake of 15 s s s 599 s The Field and Land and Water The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Daily News, The Standard, The Hour, The Echo The Globe The Advertiser The Morning Post The Glasgow Herald 600 601 "Alleged theft of £100.—A young man named———was yesterday brought up at the Central Police Court on a charge of stealing £100 from the office of his employer. It is stated that the prisoner had recently become addicted to betting." 602 "At the present time there are no less than 28 betting-houses in Glasgow, the number having been nearly doubled within the last two years. The more stringently the Act is enforced in England, the more numerous become the houses here. A few years ago there were none at all. The great majority—almost the whole—of the betting men are strangers who have had to flee from London, Liverpool, Manchester, &c. That the existence of such men and places has had, and is having, a very demoralising and prejudicial effect on the young men of the city there cannot be the least doubt." s The Field Land and Water 603 604
 MR. BENTINCK , in moving, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, he thought that this was a Bill which would have had more chance of passing in the late than it had in the present Parliament, that former Assembly being so much used to the practice of spoliation by legislation, that probably a measure of the kind under notice would have excited little, if any, surprise. He trusted, however, that a different feeling pervaded the present House of Commons. He could not help thinking that the Bill might fairly be described as coming under the head of measures of spoliation, and he was therefore surprised to see that it was endorsed by his hon. Friend the Member for the University
 580 581
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, that for years he had enjoyed the right of shooting over 40,000 acres in Mayo, and had also much experience in Scotland, and he could bear testimony to the fact that the grouse shooting might as safely be commenced in Ireland on the same day as in England and Scotland.
 MR. GREGORY  said, that he sympathized a good deal with what had fallen from the hon. Member who last spoke as to the impolicy and injustice of following property which had become the subject of  bonâ fide
 MR. STORER , as an English sportsman, thought that game was much tamer in Ireland than in England. He wished to point out to hon. Gentlemen who were in favour of Home Rule, that that was a question which might very well have been decided in an Irish Parliament—supposing such an Assembly to have come into existence.
 MR. BRUEN  said, that he had rented a moor in the county of Mayo for many years, and he had therefore some claim to speak on behalf of that part of Ireland. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Synan) that certain parts of Ireland were differently circumstanced in regard to this question. In the East, he (Mr. Bruen) did know that the 20th of August was too late a day for those who preserved game to commence shooting. The owner of one of the largest moors in the county of Wicklow had often told him that after the first three days of shooting the grouse became so extremely wild that it was next to impossible to get his game with his dog. In the West he had himself shot grouse up to the end of September, and they lay just as well then as at any previous period. Sir Roger Palmer, who was a large owner of shooting in Mayo, and the hon. Member who spoke last, both said that the grouse would be fit for shooting before the 20th August, and the change proposed by the noble Lord might with advantage be adopted. As regarded partridge, he thought it would be useless to make any change in the days, owing to the large quantity of corn which would be standing at any earlier period than that on which shooting now commenced. The birds would get into the standing corn, where they could not be shot, and ought not to be followed.
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON  said, the matter with which the Bill dealt was so important that he felt it would not be right for it to pass without some one saying a few words on behalf of the Government. There was one broad principle which should guide them in dealing with this question, and that was that what had over since 1853 been deemed necessary for the conduct of public morality and order for one part of the Kingdom, should apply to the whole of it. The Act of 1853 was passed with the view of correcting the very errors and faults which had been brought so prominently forward by the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Anderson); but since the passing of that Act the sister kingdom of Scotland, which had been omitted from its provisions, had been made the nest of the men who had previously carried on their betting-operations in England. As he understood, the Bill now proposed would extend the provisions of the Act of 1853 to Scotland, and it would also correct one or two defects in the Act itself. The statute of 1853 enacted in the 3rd clause that advertisements with respect to betting transactions in England and Ireland should not be published in any paper belonging to those parts of the country, and the result was that advertisements from Scotland and France could be published with impunity, and were published in the English newspapers, so that the intention of the Act in that respect had been defeated. The present Bill would meet that defect. When it was objected that the Bill of
 605
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he was surprised that so consistent an advocate of Home Rule as the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry) was not prepared to allow that principle to begin at its logical commencement—namely, the right of every person to rule in his own home. If he did so, he would allow owners of property in Ireland to deal with it themselves, and not be prepared to hand over the ancient monuments of that country to persons some of whom might come under the designation of the "cursed Saxon." He (Mr. J. Lowther) contended that this measure ought not to be proceeded with except in the form of a private Bill, and he wished to draw the attention of hon. Gentlemen to the serious departure the
 586 "That it is contrary to the usage of Parliament that a measure should be proceeded with in the form of a Public Bill which deprives any individual of his private rights in his estate (named in the Bill), without notice thereof being duly Served upon him, and without an opportunity being afforded him of being heard against the same." "On or before the 15th day of December immediately preceding the application for a Bill by which any lands or houses are intended to be taken … application in writing shall be made to the owners, lessees, or reputed lessees and occupiers of all lands and houses so intended to be taken," &c. "this Act may be applied to any monument which is, in the opinion of the Commissioners, of the like kind to any monuments specified in the first Schedule." 587
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  assented to the Bill, but with the same reservation as to the necessity of considering the wording of the provisions in Committee, as he considered they were open to amendment.
 MR. WALTER  said, he regretted that he was unable to vote for the second reading of the Bill, as he was as anxious as his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) to do whatever could be done to protect really national monuments against the encroachments of modern Vandalism. The Bill, however, appeared to him to be founded upon no logical or consistent principle. Why did it stop short at the monuments of Saxon times? The hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry) had said with great justice, that in Ireland there were many ecclesiastical as well as other historical monuments of great value. Why, so there were in England. The country was covered from one end to the other with the noblest and most interesting specimens of ecclesiastical architecture, such as Tintern, Fountains Abbey, Melrose, and Rivaulx, which could vie with any in Europe. Take such a monument of antiquity as the old Kitchen of Glastonbury? Which was the better worth preserving—such a building as that, or some one of the innumerable barrows on Salisbury Plain, any of which might come into the power of the proposed Commissioners? No one would go further than himself in denouncing any wanton abuse or desecration of such monuments as these; but was the House prepared to go the length of protecting them? If so, it was clearly a matter far beyond the scope of private legislation, and one which the Government ought to deal with on its own responsibility; and if he believed there was any serious danger of these magnificent monuments being swept away, he would not deny but that it might be the duty of the Government to interfere. If they thought fit to do so, he would go the length of supporting the Government in any proposal they might bring forward upon the subject. He would remind the House that only a few years ago a subscription was raised in this country to prevent Shakespeare's house being deported to America. Which was the more worthy of the protection of the
 585
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should be sorry to see these ancient monuments destroyed; but he thought the perfunctory manner in which the Schedule dealt with the property of many persons was a very poor return to them for the care which they and their ancestors had taken of it for many hundred years. The Bill said that such persons must not injure their property, unless they gave notice of their intention to do so, and claimed compensation for the injury they proposed to commit. If we wanted a man's property, we ought to give him fair notice of the public ground on which we wanted it, and pay him for it, and we ought not to keep a Bill like this hanging over him. It referred not only to a monument, but also to its site, and no one could tell how far a site might extend. Nothing would be more likely to lead to the destruction of these monuments than such attempts at legislation as this, and no such mode of dealing with the rights of private property ought ever to receive the sanction of that House. If the Bill went on, there was nothing to prevent the owners of some of these monuments burning the stones as lime before the Act could come into force. The definition of "monument" given in the Bill was very large and included many things, even to a ditch, and it was altogether too vague as the basis of any interference with private pro-
 594
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that he had some experience of game shooting in the West of Ireland, and could testify that the conditions were, in many cases, different from those in England and Scotland. He thought that it would be better to assimilate the time for shooting grouse and partridges in England to that of Ireland, for if the Bill was carried they would soon have very few grouse in some parts of the latter country. In the West of Ireland, where he shot every year, on the 12th of August the grouse were not generally old enough to shoot; they were, in fact, only squeakers, such as no sportsman would care to fill his bag with. He did not attach much importance to the recommendations of the Committee as to the principle of this Bill, for he thought them beyond the order of its reference and based upon a partial inquiry. He objected altogether to the Bill, and should support the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Sligo (Mr. O'Conor).
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he had not the personal experience of the last speaker, but he had studied the evidence taken by the Committee, and he could not admit that the hon. Member's description of the Bill was a just one. The main object of the Bill, and he thought also the main object of the Committee who reported upon the point, was to insure that game should be killed by those to whom it belonged; that the birds should not be shot prematurely by poachers and sold as English and Scotch birds. With regard to one objection, the Committee of last year, with every desire to ascertain the state of Irish feeling on the subject, could not have obtained better evidence
 621
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, that in Ireland the greatest difference of opinion existed about the Bill, for Lord John Browne, who was a largo proprietor in Mayo, was in favour of assimilating the dates, while others were strongly opposed to it. As there was this difference of opinion he thought it desirable before legislation that there should be further investigation; and that the Government would do right in assenting to the subject being referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, he felt it his duty to notice a remark which had been made by the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Anderson) in moving the second reading of the Bill. The hon. Member said he observed that two Irish Members belonging to the Home Rule party had given Notice of Amendments hostile to the Bill. He (Mr. Mitchell Henry) regarded it as an unfortunate circumstance that every opportunity should be taken by some hon. Members in that House of introducing insinuations of that nature in debates relating to other subjects. The hon. Member, moreover, was mistaken in supposing that the two hon. Members he referred to belonged to the Homo Rule party. One of them was not a Home Ruler; on the contrary, he was very much opposed to it. Home Rule should be discussed on its merits. So far as he was concerned, the earlier it was discussed the better; and he did not think that it would then be found to be a measure that could justify hon. Members on either side of the House pointing to those who hold the Home Rule faith as being, in consequence, unfitted to legislate, or to express an opinion upon general questions of the kind now before the House.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, that although he hoped the House would assent to the second reading, yet he was of opinion that the Bill did not go far enough. There were many ancient monuments in Ireland, both historical and ecclesiastical, which were well worthy of national preservation, and great exertions had been made by a small number of private owners to preserve Pagan and Christian monuments in that country. He was sorry that the Bill did not come down to later times, and include the preservation of those monuments which belonged to the Christian era. In some instances they had experienced great difficulty in obtaining access to such monuments. One difficulty connected with their preservation was, that many of them belonged to absentee proprietors who lived in England and Scotland, and who cared very little what became of the national monuments in Ireland. If the House were to wait till the Government brought in a Bill on this subject, it might wait till the Greek Kalends, for it was invariably the practice of all Governments never to take up a question of the kind until they were urged to do
 584
 MR. MORLEY , in reply, acknowledged the general acceptance which the Bill had met with on the part of the House, while at the same time he was compelled to admit that the objections which had been made by several hon. and learned Members were deserving of consideration. His simple object was to secure the assent of the House to the principle of the Bill, and he would be glad to take counsel with hon. and learned Gentlemen who had pointed out defects in the wording of the Bill, in order to introduce such Amendments in Committee as would secure for the measure the sanction of the House.
 MR. MORLEY , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, its object lay within a very narrow compass. In 1870, a Bill was passed in that House called the Married Women's Property Bill. The 3rd clause of the Bill enacted that every woman who married after the Act came into operation should during her coverture retain all her personal property, whether possessed by her before marriage, or acquired after marriage, free from the debts or control of her husband. The 6th clause enacted that the husband should not be liable for debts contracted by the wife before marriage; but that the wife might be sued, and any property that she had to her separate use might be taken in satisfaction of the debt. The Bill went to the House of Lords with those two clauses in it, but when it returned to the House of Commons, one of the clauses was struck out, and, as the Bill passed, the wife lost her property, but the husband was relieved from the liability to pay the debts of the wife before marriage. He believed he was correctly representing the present state of the law when he said that there were thousands of unmarried women now carrying on trade who might purchase on credit goods in which they were dealing, and the following week might marry and snap their lingers at their creditors, who would have no remedy against either the husband or the wife. He had that day presented a Petition from a large number of bankers and traders, praying that the remedy which this Bill sought to se-cure might be granted. He might mention one case as illustrating the hardships inflicted on creditors by the present state of the law. A lady purchased a piano of a manufacturer, agreeing to pay for it in eight quarterly payments. She made good three or four of these pay-
 608
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that if he saw any chance of comprehensive legislation on this subject during the present Session, he would willingly wait. A comprehensive measure was brought in last year, was supported by considerable majorities, and would have passed the House of Commons but for the half past 12 o'clock rule. Although the other House were not disinclined to criticize the proceedings of this, noble and learned Lords appeared to have framed the Act of 1870 by contributing each a section, without any one of them taking care that the different sections should be consistent one with the other. That that Act should at an early period be largely modified seemed therefore to be a matter of necessity. Those who desired such modifications, however, looting to the shortness of the Session, had determined not to bring them forward this year. There was, under these
 612
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON , in opposing the second reading of the Bill, said, he did not think it ought to be allowed to pass without very careful consideration. Of course they all accepted the principle that the ancient monuments in the Kingdom should be preserved, but this Bill proposed to deal with ancient monuments in a way which he thought
 583
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that our ancient national monuments were rapidly disappearing, yet they were seldom destroyed because they interfered with any important improvement, or any great engineering work; on the contrary, they were generally demolished for very trifling reasons. The tumuli, or burial mounds, though each was, as a rule, the burial place of one Chief, contained not only his remains, but also those of the animals killed in his honour, and he feared in many cases of the wives and slaves sent to accompany their lord and master to the land of spirits. Under these circumstances, the earth of which they were composed was generally somewhat richer than the average, and was often carted away, therefore, to be used as manure, while the megalithic monuments were broken up to serve as gateposts, or even to mend the roads. Some time ago, there were near Marlborough three dolmens of sufficient magnitude to be marked on the ordnance map of England. The year before last he went down at Easter to visit them—one he found was still safe; the second, he was informed, had recently been removed by the occupier of the farm, because it interfered with his ploughing; the third was actually being broken up to mend the roads. In another case, a great Irish nobleman had given orders to build a wall round a field which contained the remains of Con O'Neill's Castle at Castlereagh, his object being to protect the ruins; but the agent pulled down the old castle and used the stones to make the wall. Abury—or Avebury—itself, the year before last, had a very narrow escape. Speaking of it, one of our old antiquaries said that Abury "did as much exceed Stonehenge as a cathedral doth an ordinary parish church," and though the monument was not now nearly so perfect, a large number of the gigantic stones having been broken up for the sake of a profit, which after all did not amount to more than a few
 575 576 577 "Maintained as a national monument by reason of its architectural character or antiquity, the Commissioners shall by order vest such church, building, or structure in the Secretary of the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland, to be held by such Secretary, his heirs and assigns, upon trust for the Commissioners of Public Works, to be preserved as a national monument, and not to be used as a place of public worship, and the Commissioners shall ascertain and by order declare what sum is, in their judgment, required for maintaining as national monuments the churches, buildings, or Structures so vested, and shall pay such sum accordingly to the said Secretary, to be held upon trust for the said Commissioners, and to be applied by them in maintaining the said churches, buildings, and structures." 578 579 Juventus Mundi
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK , in reply to the various objections urged against the Bill said, that under it the right of access to a monument would not arise until it had been purchased and paid for; while as to the apprehended invasion of a man's house, nobody lived in British, Celtic, or Roman remains; and it was not proposed to interfere with any monument situated in parks, gardens, or pleasure-grounds. The reason that the Duchy of Cornwall was excluded from the Bill was because it could not be included without consent, which was refused; and the names of the Commission were a sufficient assurance that there would be no vexatious interference with the rights of private property. The Bill, moreover, would not burden ratepayers at all, because it contemplated that the Treasury would undertake a charge which would be for the national advantage; but if the Government would not accept the Bill with that clause in it, the promoters would take it without the clause. "With regard to what had been said by the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell-Henry), ecclesiastical buildings in Ireland were provided for by the Irish Church Act. Whether Silchester should be included in the Schedule was a question for Committee. Mediaeval buildings were not included in the present Bill, because it was considered that they could best be dealt with by a different machinery. Moreover, they would require a considerable outlay for repairs, which was not the case with the monuments dealt with in the present measure. The reason why the Bill named the Defence Act instead of the Lands Clauses Act was that the former contemplated partial or entire acquisition, and the latter entire acquisition only. He might state that there never was any intention to
 595
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, before the House went to a division, he wished to call serious attention, on behalf of the Government, to an important deviation involved in the measure under notice from the constitutional practice and principle underlying the conduct of Public Business in this
 590 591 592 593
 VISCOUNT CRICHTON , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said that its object was to alter the grouse and partridge shooting seasons in accordance with the recommendations of a Select Committee by whom this question had been considered. It proposed that grouse shooting should commence on the 12th instead of the 20th August, and that partridge shooting should commence on the 10th instead of the 20th September. The grouse were, in fact, quite as fit to be shot by the 12th of August in Ireland as they were in England and Scotland. Under the present system any gentleman who had the shooting over a moor might, if the commencement of the season were wet and stormy, find when he was able to set to work that the birds were so wild that it was impossible to get near them. Besides, the present system afforded great facilities for the illegal sale of grouse and partridges killed, at present, on the 12th, and sold as English and Scotch birds, the law against which might to a great extent be said to be a dead letter in Ireland. It was at first proposed that the partridge shooting should commence on the 1st of September, as in England; but against this it was urged that there were different conditions in the state of the agriculture of the two countries. As there was probably good reason in this objection, he proposed that the partridge shooting should commence on the 10th of September, instead of on the 1st of the month. The only other objection was that grouse and partridges were not fit to be shot on August 12 and September 10 respectively. He could only say, in answer to that objection, that the evidence tended to show the contrary. The memorial to which he had alluded, and which was laid before the Committee, was signed by the great majority of those interested in grouse shooting. Of course it would have been competent to the other party to have got up a counter memorial, but such was not oven attempted; they let the matter go by default, calling only two witnesses before the Committee. As he
 616
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : It is not the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill to create one Register for the Parliamentary and Municipal franchises, which would involve increase of the work, and therefore pay, of the Revising Barristers, and alterations in the times of revision or of municipal elections, and would at best produce two lists on one piece of paper so long as the franchises are distinct. But with regard to the last part of the Question, which chiefly relates to "frivolous objections," that matter is under the consideration of the Government.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I believe a subscription was made and handed to H. Goodchild during the time that meetings were held on the subject of an increase of pay; but no instructions either to pay or withhold it were given by the Commissioners. Subsequent to that, so far as I am aware, no money or subscriptions have been raised by the police and promised to H. Goodchild in order to recoup him for expenses incurred when seeking for an increase of pay, and therefore no directions have been given by the Commissioners to withhold it. Subsequent to the dismissal of H. Goodchild from the police force application was made by him to the Commissioners to sanction a subscription to meet certain charges for which he was held liable in connection with those proceedings. He was informed that if a correct statement of the expenses incurred by him on account of police meetings held prior to the 16th of November, 1872, supported by vouchers, &c, were fur-
 626
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Lord Cairns' Commission reported that "the Crown could not, consistently with the good faith of the guarantee of 1858, diminish the opportunities of promotion of the officers of the Indian Army" for such purposes as were suggested on the inquiry. They added an opinion that "the hardships and inconveniences" resulting ought to be removed by "suitable arrangements in the British Army," "the nature of which," they said, "it was not for them to indicate." That Report was made in March, 1871, since which time nothing has been done. In the meantime, supersession has gone on, remedied as before, by ante-dating the commissions of English colonels when they are promoted to be major-generals, and by the rank of the Indian major-generals being local in India. This will continue for seven or eight years longer, and at present I do not see my way to any more complete remedy than has been applied. I am not insensible of the grievance, but it seems to me that it is dying out in a way that will remedy itself.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, the contract with Messrs. Bull for the superstructure of the New Law Courts was £693,429. This sum did not include the expense of the fittings or works connected with warming, fighting, and ventilating the Courts. The total cost of these, with architect's commission and Clerk of Works' salary, would amount to £826,000. He regretted he could not place the drawings and plans of the Now Law Courts in the
 629
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, explained that the "excrescence" formed the dome of the Central Octagon Hall of the Galleries now in course of erection, and alluded to by the hon. Member for South Hampshire (Mr. Cowper-Temple) on Tuesday, and that it was therefore intended to be permanent. As to how long this dome should be visible from the street he must refer his hon. Friend to his two right hon. Friends the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to ascertain what sum of money they were willing to allow him to re-model the present façade of the National Gallery and hide the "iron-girded excrescence" from view.
 COLONEL HOGG : In answer to the Question of the hon. Baronet, I beg to state that the attention of the Board was some time ago directed to Wormwood Scrubs, and inquiries were made, but no definite action could be taken. I will take care that the attention of the Board shall again be drawn to the subject.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The alterations which were made in 1873 is the Queen's Regulations, 1868, will have the effect of throwing open the higher Staff appointments to all field officers of the Army who qualify under Clause 56 of the 5th section. The personal Staff appointments are governed by Clause 60.
 COLONEL HOGG , in reply, said, it was not the intention of the Metropolitan Board of Works to make fresh approaches to the Thames Embankment, as they hoped the new street from Charing Cross, which would soon be made, would tend to relieve the traffic of the Strand, and thereby be of convenience to the public.
 MR. BASS : I did not understand the question. I thought the right hon. Gentleman asked me whether we got any compensation for the licences in the abolition of the Hop Duty. I reply—Not one penny.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he had heard with great satisfaction many of the statements made by the right hon. Gentleman. They had often heard about lightening the springs of industry, but he was afraid the meaning of that sometimes was the not paying our debts. He was glad that the principle for which he had long contended, of applying a part of the Revenue every year to the redemption of the Debt, had to a certain extent been recognized by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. They had no right to count on a continuance of the great commercial prosperity of the country, and it would be extremely wrong to neglect the opportunity which times like the present afforded of doing something in the direction he had mentioned.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he was a Member of a Commission appointed in 1868 to inquire into the state of the law relating to military offences. That Commission reported that the law was in a complicated state and required alteration. Since then there had been several changes in the office of Judge Advocate, and no step had been taken in compliance with the recommendations of the Commission. He was desirous to know what course Her Majesty's Government proposed to take on the subject?
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, there was no doubt such a measure as had been sketched out by the right hon. and learned Gentleman was much desired in the Army. At the same time, he must state that the opinion was not unanimous in the Service as to the advantage which would result from the codification of the law, for there were many officers of high rank who thought it would be better to preserve the Mutiny Bill in the form it now existed, subject to such amendments as might be made in it from year to year. His attention had been called to the subject, and he hoped to be able to do something in this matter, if not this, at all events, next year.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, the clause which was introduced by the late Government took away the entire impunity which a soldier formerly enjoyed who deserted his wife and children. This was a great alteration in the previous law, but it appeared to be a wise and humane provision, and as it only became law last year it was somewhat early to amend the section without further proof of its working. There was good reason for intrusting discretion to the Secretary of State. The hon. Gentleman was aware that stoppages were made from the pay of the soldiers for various reasons, and if discretion were not left with the Secretary of State it might occur that the soldier would absolutely be left without food or clothes. If, too, a large amount was stopped out of his pay, the soldier was almost sure to desert. He quite admitted the diffi-
 703
 COLONEL ALEXANDER  pointed out what he considered to be an anomaly in the existing law, illustrating it by a case which had actually occurred in his own battalion. A corporal was ordered by a magistrate to pay 2 s d. d. s d. s d. s d. d. d. d. d.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, that we ourselves had made for the soldier an artificial condition of life, and we were bound to do all we could to protect him from its consequences. He was continually liable to be removed from one end of the country to the other in the discharge of his duties, and was thus peculiarly open to false and vexatious charges of this kind. Such charges might also be got up in collusion with the soldier in order that he might escape some irksome duty. To prevent these possible evils the re-
 704
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he could not assent to the Amendment. It must be remembered that the first duty of military authorities was to keep the Army in the state of efficiency and readiness for which a standing Army was maintained. There were two sides to the question, and there might be cases in which women proceeded against the soldier because they knew where he was, and that he had money which might be relied upon; whereas another man might have absconded, or might have nothing to pay. Then, again, there might be collusion between a woman and a soldier for the purpose of getting him away from his regiment, and enabling him to desert. The money was an evidence of  bona fides, 705
 MR. STANSFELD  said, it was doubtful if the clause fairly met all cases of affiliations, and he hoped the Secretary of State for War would undertake to consider the subject.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. P. A. Taylor) had not brought forward a single instance in which the clause had debarred a woman from proceeding against a soldier. Suppose a soldier were transferred from Manchester to Portsmouth, and a summons were served upon him to answer a charge of affiliation in Manchester, any one knew that he was not likely to be in possession of money to enable him to proceed to Manchester, and that was the ground on which Lord Cardwell agreed to this clause. It had been in operation a year, and no complaint had been made against its operation. In the absence of such a clause there might be cases of collusion in which women wished to get their paramours returned from the places to which they had been transferred.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he thought that the best way would be to allow the matter to stand over till it could be dealt with by a more comprehensive measure. He strongly objected to having a series of small measures upon ecclesiastical subjects. He found, as the result of a correspondence on the subject, that the vast majority of Bishops over the country were opposed to the Bill.
 MR. W. LOWTHER  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If there has been any settlement of the dispute between the Egyptian Government and the Alexandria and Ramlegh Railway Company?
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, that, with the sanction of the Admiralty, Captain Bythesea, an officer of experience and scientific attainments, had been appointed Consulting Naval Officer to the Marino Department of the Indian Government. His salary would be 2,500 rupees per month, and an allowance of 250 rupees would be made to him for a house, which would be paid out of the Indian revenues. He was appointed for five years. The duties, it seemed, were not such as could be properly discharged by any officer in the ordinary service.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he was not disposed to withdraw his Amendment. He would suggest that the Bill should be simply negatived.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he thought that it was desirable that churchwardens should attend Archdeacons' visitations as frequently as possible, to consult with other officers of the church on practical matters. Churchwardens were, doubtless, very respectable men in their way, but they were not all alike. There was considerable difference
 707
 MR. MARTEN  shared in the general expression of gratification with which the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was received; but he ventured to express his regret that the right hon. Gentleman had not dealt with the brewers' licence duty. At the same time, he derived encouragement from what the right hon. Gentleman had said, that he kept over this matter to be dealt with as part of the general question of the malt duty, which required more ample consideration than time would now allow. Still, he had hoped the brewers' licence duty would be dealt with on its own merits, or rather its demerits. The number of brewers who paid the duty was comparatively small. The great bulk of the brewers in this country brewed very small quantities, and their profits must therefore be—as in fact they were—proportionately small. According to the Return for the year ending the 30th September, 1872, the total number of common brewers was 30,798, but out of that number 28,549 were returned as brewing under 1,000 barrels of beer annually, which would represent about 250 quarters of malt, and, taking all expenses into consideration, would not leave a profit in the best of such cases of more than £250 a-year. In the majority of cases it might be taken at from £100 to £150. In bringing the case of these persons under the notice of the Committee,
 690 691
 MR. MUNDELLA  asked the Secretary of the Local Government Board, What stops are being taken to prevent the importation of adulterated articles of food into this country, and to relieve honest traders from their liability to conviction under the Act of last year for the sale of articles adulterated by the foreign producer, and on which Customs Duties have been paid?
 MR. DISRAELI : No, Sir, it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose that that inquiry should be continued.
 MR. MONK  said, that after the discussion which it had elicited he would not proceed with the Bill.
 MR. MONK , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, explained its object to be to provide facilities for the admission of Churchwardens into Office. It enabled a Churchwarden to make the declaration required by law before the rural dean or incumbent of his parish, instead of waiting for the Archdeacon's or Bishop's visitation to be admitted. Until admission the title was not complete, and the outgoing churchwardens remained in office, when the Bishop's visitation took place in the autumn, for six months after their successors had been appointed. Great inconvenience arose there from in places where the churchwardens were  ex officio
 CAPTAIN RITCHIE  observed, that the poorer classes of income tax-payers had expected to receive some consideration in this Budget, and it had been hoped that a portion of the surplus would be devoted to raising the limit of exemption to £200 or £250. He thought that if some portion of the sum which had been given to the remission of the duty upon horses had been appropriated in that direction, it would have given more general satisfaction to the country at large.
 GENERAL SHUTE  asked the Secretary of State for War, If he intends to take steps to carry into effect the Recommendation of the Royal Commission, presided over by Lord Cairns, and, "by suitable arrangements in the British service," remove the hardships and inconveniences complained of by the Colonels in the Army in respect of their supersession by Colonels in the Indian Army, their juniors?
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he thought the proposal of the Lord Advocate to postpone
 706
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, he did not intend to enter into the details of the measure. He rose simply for the purpose of intimating the course of procedure which he proposed to adopt if the Bill should be read a second time that night—a stage which he understood was not opposed. He proposed that the Bill should be committed  pro formâ
 MR. SYNAN  said, he did not propose to enter into any discussion of so large a subject as the question of the reduction of the National Debt on the present occasion; but when it came to a matter of comparison whether there should be such a reduction, or a reduction of those taxes which interfered with the comforts and independence of the people, he should vote for that which affected their present prosperity—namely, the relief of those taxes which were hard to bear or tended to impede that prosperity, He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether his scheme of affording relief in respect of local taxation would be extended to Ireland, as in that country the lunatic asylums were supported by the counties out of county rates, and not by unions as in England, and were a very heavy burden upon the ratepayers, who had no power to divide the rates with the landlord?
 MR. SYNAN  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the satisfactory answer he had given to his question, and congratulated him on the able way in which he had introduced his Budget.
 MR. MELLY  said, he rose to continue the pœan of praise with which the truly Liberal Budget of the right hon. Gentleman had been received on that side
 692 s 693
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he was much disappointed that incomes below £300 a-year were not wholly exempted from income tax.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Any proceedings for the purpose of preventing the importation of adulterated articles of food must, under the existing law, be taken by local authorities and not by the Government. With regard to the second part of the Question, many memorials have reached me complaining of the hardship inflicted on dealers, and especially on retail dealers, by the operation of the Adulteration Act of 1872. The Government have taken their complaints into consideration and have determined to ask the House to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the subject. I propose to give Notice of a Motion to that effect on an early day.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : In reply to my hon. Friend's first Question, I cannot hold out any hope that the Government will be able to introduce a Bill on the subject this Session. As my hon. Friend well knows, it is in the power of counties to mitigate the hardships thus inflicted on parishes by adopting the provisions of the Highway District Act, and it might seem a simple matter to introduce a Bill to make that Act compulsory; but, to do so, would possibly prejudice the future consideration of the other matters referred to in his Question, and I wish, therefore, to take further time before giving a final answer on this point.
 MR. STORER  congratulated the Chancellor of the Exchequer for so considerably lightening the burdens so long borne by the real property of the country; but he could not view the Budget with unmixed satisfaction, because he thought agriculturists had a right to expect that justice would have been granted to them in regard to the malt tax.
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, he would have been glad if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had left the income tax where it was, and allowed the proceeds to go into the sinking fund of our National Debt. If our commerce were always to go on increasing it was of small importance whether we paid off our Debt or not; but it appeared to him we ought not to take for granted that the country would always be as prosperous as it was at present. The prosperity we had enjoyed for the last 20 or 30 years was more likely to be the exception than the rule, and the time might come when a Debt of over £700,000,000 would press heavily even on the indomitable energies of this country. As to the income tax being objectionable, why, all taxes were, for that matter, objectionable, and if they were to proceed to deal with them all for that reason they would never be able to reduce the National Debt at all. He contended that it was their bounden duty in a time of prosperity such as this to make some serious effort to reduce that Debt. An opportunity of doing so had been allowed to pass; a popular Budget had been prepared, and he almost despaired of seeing a serious effort made to reduce our enormous Debt. The present was an epoch in the history of our finances. The policy of stimulating our commerce to the utmost had borne fruit, and we were now in possession of an enormous surplus with which a great effort might be made to grapple with our gigantic Debt. The Statesmen of 1815 were wise in their generation, in neglecting the Debt, and turning their thoughts to stimulating the commercial and manufacturing energies of the country, in throwing the reins, as it was called, on the neck of the willing horse, so that the country might increase so much in wealth as not to feel the weight of a Debt which might otherwise have crushed it. But a totally different set of conditions had now arisen from those of 1815. We had now a plethora of wealth in the country, and he contended that it would be wise and statesmanlike in the day of our prosperity to prepare against a day of possible commercial depression and calamity. Without going into the question whether our coal supply was likely to be exhausted or not, he would point out that in the event of the price of coal continuing to advance our commercial prosperity might be greatly endangered.
 687
 MR. J. W. BARCLAY  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the remission of the horse duty, which he felt assured would be received as a great boon by the farmers of the country. So far as Scotland was concerned, the farmers felt that they had been rather harassed by the late Chancellor. The right hon. Baronet seemed also to correctly understand the feelings of the farmers with respect to the dog tax. The farmers were not in favour of the total abolition of that tax. He believed they would approve of the suggestion to double the present tax, and exempt those from payment who kept sheep. There was another tax in regard to which the farmers felt strongly, and that was the gun tax. Farmers, though allowed to shoot vermin, might only scare birds, and rooks, which used to be shot by persons who would not pay the duty, had alarmingly increased. The tax was so small a matter that it would not affect the Financial Statement, and he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer Mould deal with it on the next opportunity.
 MR. GRIEVE  called attention to the dates fixed for the cessation of the sugar duties, comparing the intervening periods with those allowed on former occasions, and said he believed that, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would hear the sugar refiners, he would see reason to make a change in the dates that were proposed in the Resolutions. He complimented the right hon. Gentleman upon his courage in abolishing those duties. Its effect on the shipping interest and upon the commerce of the country would be most beneficial.
 MR. COLMAN  said, that whilst some complaints had been made that the malt tax had not been dealt with, it was only fair, on the other hand, to remember
 698
 MR. DODSON  said, he wished to know whether it was proposed to dispose at present of all the different Resolutions connected with the Budget,
 680
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Secretary of State for War, If his attention has been drawn to the alteration which has been recently made in section 5, paragraph 59, of the Queen's Regulations, and if the effect of this alteration will be to throw open all staff appointments, not of the three lowest grades specified in the altered paragraph, to Officers who have not passed the final examination of the Staff College, and who do not come under the exceptional heads of Royal Engineers, or of Officers distinguished for ability in the field?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : In answer to the hon. Baronet I desire to state that it would he impossible to extend to Ireland the order for the compulsory slaughter of cattle afflicted with pleuro-pneumonia, owing to a legal difficulty of a technical character, which has interfered with the process of raising funds for the administration of the Cattle Diseases Acts and for the payment of the expenses that would he incurred by compulsory slaughter such as that referred to. However, that difficulty will, I hope, be remedied by a Bill which has already passed this House, and the Irish Government has under its very careful consideration the question to which my hon. Friend refers. There are, however, still difficulties connected with the matter, arising from the manner in which the Cattle Diseases Acts are administered in Ireland, and I hope my hon. Friend will understand that I do not give any pledge upon the action that may be taken.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, ht; did not see how the Chancellor of the Exchequer could have abolished the income tax, though after the proclamation last January many persons had expected, and would have benefited by such a course. After the unfortunate step taken last year, the remission of the sugar duty had become inevitable. With respect to the relief
 697
 MR. BOURKE : The Papers laid on the Table last year will show what was the state of the question at that time. Since then two letters have been addressed by the Directors of the Company to Lord Granville in September and October last. They do not materially affect the position of the controversy, and since that time there has been no change, as far as we know, in the state of affairs. No reference has been addressed on the subject to the present Government.
 MR. LOWE : After the very important and admirable statement of the right hon. Gentleman, I should hardly be treating him with proper respect if I presumed to offer any observations on his proposals at the present moment. There are many things in his speech which we on this side of the House have heard with great satisfaction, and I would now simply ask him when he proposes to proceed with his financial scheme?
 MR. SALT , in seconding the Amendment, said, that as the Bill only touched the fringe of a difficult question the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. Monk) should postpone it until the whole subject had been fully considered. He hoped the hon. Member would comply with that suggestion, and not put the House to the trouble of dividing.
 MR. T. E. SMITH  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether it is true that an Officer of the Royal Navy has been or is about to be appointed Inspector of Her Majesty's Ships on the Indian Station; and, if so, whether his salary, said to be 3,000 rupees per month, will be paid by the Indian Government; whether his duties will be such as could not be discharged by the ordinary establishment of Naval Officers on the Station; and, whether the Officer in question has had any special training or experience to fit him for the discharge of such duties?
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that the land referred to by the hon. Gentleman was the piece of land which was marked on the plan in the Schedule to the Thames Embankment (Land) Act of 1873 as belonging to the Crown. By that Act the Metropolitan Board of Works, in the event of their acquiring Northumberland House, were empowered to acquire also the land in question for the purposes of a public garden. An agreement had now been entered into with the Duke for the purchase of Northumberland House on July 7, and land would then be conveyed by the Crown to the Metropolitan Board of Works, and would be laid out as a garden in accordance with the Act.
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, undertook that the question put by the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Grieve) should be carefully considered. It was not proposed to repeal the duty on refined sugar till the 21st of May, so that more than a month would be given to refiners to work out their stocks. It was the intention of the Government to take the Resolution on sugar that night, and to postpone the Resolutions on the income tax and the horse duty until Thursday next.
 MR. W. STANHOPE  said, he thought the projected change respecting the cost of the maintenance of lunatics would undoubtedly be a national advantage. It would also be an inducement to guardians to send fresh cases into asylums at an earlier stage, but it would cause the transfer of many chronic cases, now treated in the union workhouses, to the asylums, and a large increase in the number of lunatics sent into the county asylums, and, consequently, a vast charge would be thrown on the counties in providing additional accom-
 688
 MR. FORSYTH  asked the First Commissioner of Works, To inform the House in whom the ownership is vested of the piece of land on the north side of the Thames Embankment, between Hungerford Bridge and the gardens of Montagu House, and how long it is intended to allow the same to remain unoccupied and waste?
 MR. RATHBONE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If
 625
 MR. RATHBONE  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose that the inquiry entrusted to the Select Committee on Civil Services Expenditure 1873 should be continued in the present Session of Parliament, in accordance with the recommendation of that Committee?
 MR. WAIT  asked the First Commissioner of Works, What is the amount of the revised Contract for the erection of the Now Courts of Justice; and is there any objection to lay the Drawings upon the Library Table, for the inspection of Members?
 MR. WAIT  asked the First Commissioner of "Works, What is the object of the iron-girded excrescence that has lately appeared on the roof of the National Gallery, and whether it is intended to be a permanent structure; and, if so, how it is proposed to conceal it?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is true that, by the direction of the Commissioners of the Metropolitan Police, the money raised by the police will not be handed to Henry Goodchild, late a constable in the Force, such money and subscriptions having been promised to Henry Goodchild in order to recoup him for expenses incurred when seeking for an increase of pay, which was subsequently granted?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works, Whether the Metropolitan Board propose to take any steps to prevent the possible future exclusion of the public by the War Office from the Metropolitan common of 170 acres, known as Wormwood Scrubs, over which the War Office are endeavouring by negotiation with the copyholders to acquire absolute rights?
 MR. GOLDNEY  supported the Bill, on the ground that it afforded the churchwardens an easy method of qualifying themselves by going before the vicar or chairman of the vestry and taking the necessary oath.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer deserved great credit for undertaking to deal with the question of local taxation. Lunatics were now better cared for than they used to be, poor-houses were better managed, and the rural police made more effective; and it must be admitted that the cost of these improvements had fallen very heavily on the land. The whole country benefited by improved asylums, bettor-regulated poor-houses, and a more efficient police, and yet, hitherto, it was the land upon which all the expense had fallen. The same might be said of schools. Great expense was gone to in providing schools, especially where there were school boards; and landowners were obliged to provide them, if they objected to school boards. All this entailed great burdens on land, and the grievance had been admitted by one Government after another; but none had had the courage to deal with it, because there were persons in this country who seemed to think that land and the owners of land ought to be treated as harshly as possible, and these people were just now doing all they could to injure the landlord, making him pay higher wages to the labourer. The labourer, no doubt, was in some places not sufficiently paid; but this system of agitation in his behalf was hurtful to the land, and if carried on and supported by those who ought to know better the land would be unable to bear the pressure. He believed that when the whole system of finance should be taken into account it would be found that some further alterations might be made to relieve the burdens on land without injury to any other interest or class of people in the country. As to the
 689
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  thanked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the very kind manner in which he had taken notice of the subject of local taxation. It was their duty to be thankful for small mercies, and those which had just fallen to the lot of the agricultural interest came within that category. It was commonly said that when a man had been kept from food for a long while he should be fed carefully at first so as not to produce repletion, and this was the principle on which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had acted. At the same time, he had held out a promise of doing something more in the future. It was difficult to see why the sugar duties should be totally abolished, while those on malt were left untouched. Last year, when the former were remitted one-half, his hon. Friend (Mr. Clare Read) asked why the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not turn his hand to malt, and he (Sir George Jenkinson) might now say the same thing. Surely the time had now arrived for dealing with the duties on malt. They were very heavy, and it could not reasonably be asked that the whole should be remitted at once; but, with so large a surplus as that which had just been announced, it might fairly have been expected that there would be a reduction of them to the extent of a third or a fourth. Three times within the last five years had relief been given to the consumers of sugar, and he could not see a reason for this special favour. He hoped the subject of the malt duties would receive the favourable consideration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer next year, for the tax pressed heavily upon the agriculturists, especially in the feeding of cattle. With regard to the remission of the horse duty, he thought that some of those who benefited most would be among the richer classes. Local taxation was very heavy, and was in danger of being increased, and this was one item which might have helped in its reduction by providing for the expenses of turnpike roads after the Trusts had expired.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether, in consideration of the constantly increasing expenses which are thrown on to separate parishes by the partial and piecemeal extinction of Turnpike Trusts, and seeing also that the maintenance of all roads is rapidly becoming a charge on real property only, involving a very large additional amount of local taxation on the ratepayers, Her Majesty's Government intend, in accordance with the repeated recommendations of the Select Committee on the Turnpike Continuance Act, to provide by legislative enactment, during this Session, for the more general and simultaneous extinction of all remaining Trusts, and for the future maintenance, on a comprehensive and equitable basis, of all Turnpike and other Roads of which the Trusts have been or may hereafter be abolished; and, whether they intend to rectify the evils necessarily resulting from the Highway Acts of 1862 and 1864 being only permissive and optional, by making those Acts compulsory?
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  asked the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works, If there is any intention of opening out additional means of access to the Thames Embankment from the Strand, for either foot passengers or vehicles, between the points of Charing Cross and Blackfriars Bridge, with a view to relieve the overcrowded traffic of the Strand, and to render the Embankment more useful to the public?
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the House that he had received from the Judges selected for the Trial of Election Petitions, pursuant to the Parliamentary Elections Act, 1868, Certificates and Reports relating to the Elections for the Borough of Kidderminster; and for the Borough of Hackney. And the same were severally read.
 In the matter of the Kidderminster Election:—A Petition against the late Return of Albert Grant, esquire, for the Borough of Kidderminster, having been duly presented, and afterwards application made for the withdrawal of the Petition—Mr. Justice Bramwell reported "that the withdrawal of the said Petition was not the result of any corrupt arrangement, nor in consideration of the withdrawal of any other Petition." In the matter of the Hackney Election:—Mr. Justice Grove certified that he had duly held a Court for the trial of the Election Petition for the Borough of Hackney, between William John Gill, Petitioner, and John Holms and Charles Reed, Respondents; and further certified—"That at the conclusion of the said trial I determined that the said John Holms and Charles Reed, being the Members whose Election and Return were complained of in the said Petition, were not duly elected and returned.
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  congratulated the right hon. Gentleman on the very able Statement which he had just made to the Committee, and the magnificent surplus which he inherited from his predecessors. He, however, could not but regret that the right hon. Gentleman did not propose to do more for the reduction of the National Debt. If the present policy had been adopted in deference to the views of those who had specially studied the question, he would have been most loth to obtrude any mere views of his own on the House; but, on the contrary, the most eminent of our political economists had expressed themselves very strongly in favour of the reduction of the National Debt, though subject, of course, to the choice of a favourable time and opportunity. It had been said that practical politicians had taken a very different view, and had preferred reduction of taxation to reduction of Debt. This, however, appeared to have been done in deference rather to the supposed wishes of the country than in the exercise of their own deliberate judgment. In fact, our most eminent financiers had generally expressed themselves strongly on the wisdom of reducing our Debt. Sir George Lewis, one of the most sagacious of statesmen, speaking with all the responsibility of a Chancellor of the Exchequer, expressed his strong conviction that we ought to take steps to reduce our Debt, and that £5,000,000 a-year was too little to devote to such a purpose. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London (Mr. Lowe), when Chancellor of the Exchequer, said that "he would be glad, as far as he was concerned, if the House would consent to put on a shilling income tax for the reduction of Debt," which, however, he (Sir John Lubbock) thought would be going too far. The right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the Liberal party, in 1866, made a most eloquent and convincing speech on the subject, expressing his conviction that it was our duty "in the time of our wealth and prosperity to reduce our Debt." The present Prime Minister, when Chancellor of the Exchequer in the following year, referred at length to that speech, and said that he "entirely approved the policy which it enunciated." Nay, the right hon. Gentleman himself had that evening expressed the same views. Moreover,
 682 The Times The Economist 683 s d. s d 684 s s d 685 "If a Chancellor of the Exchequer is called upon to go into the market to raise money, he will walk with a prouder mien, and experience greater facilities in raising money, if it can be shown that in the day of out prosperity we have made an honourable and an honest attempt to reduce the amount of our National Debt."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Gloucester would postpone the measure, which was but a tinkering and piecemeal mode of legislating upon a much wider subject than that which the measure professed to deal with.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  asked the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, If he will state to the House the decision arrived at by the Department on the subject of the restrictions regarding the size and arrangements of schools in Scotland, recently brought under his notice by a deputation from Scotland?
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, that in consequence of the nature of the Answer, he should not bring on the Motion on this subject of which he had given Notice for to-morrow.
 SIR ROBERT BUXTON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it is the intention of Government to carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee on the Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act of last year, and extend
 627
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I shall not detain the Committee by any prefatory observations, but will proceed at once to state the results of the finances of the year which has just expired—the year 1873–4. And I will begin—although the figures have been already published and are known to hon. Members—by stating what were the Expenditure and Revenues of that year. The right hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for the University of London, in his Budget Statement last year, estimated the Expenditure for the year 1873–4 at £75,071,000, including in that amount the whole of the Alabama Award. The actual Expenditure, including the payment of the Alabama Award, has been £70,400,500, or £1,395,000 in excess of that Estimate. That, as the Committee will readily understand, is mainly duo to that unforeseen event, the Ashantee War, the expenditure for which, in the year 1873–4, has been £800,000. I believe I may say, in passing, that very probably the Vote taken for the Ashantee War of £800,000, with perhaps a Supple-
 635 636 637 638 639 640 641 642 643 d 644 d d 645 646 "Scilicet egregii mortalem altique silentî." "Who left half told The story of Cambuscan bold," "A gaoler to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor." 647 648 649 650 651 652 s d., s d. 653 654 655 656 657 658 s s s 659 660 661 662 d. 663 pari passu. 664 prima donna, 665 666 pro tanto 667 668 669 670 671 672
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : On Thursday next; the Navy Estimates are fixed for Monday.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg the hon. Member's pardon. The question I wished to put was this,—When hops were subject to duty and when the brewers had to use hops only, were the brewers able in the price they charged to make their customers pay the duty which they paid upon hops? I will not press the hon. Member for an answer. [Mr. BASS: No doubt we did.] Well, if they did, I cannot for the life of me understand why they cannot make their customers pay for the Brewers' Licences. I could have understood the case if it had been the other way. They might have got from their customers the amount they paid for licence duty and yet have had a difficulty in getting what they paid for hops; because there was much fluctuation in the price of hops, and there would have been a difficulty in putting the price of beer up and down. But the amount of the Licence Duty is a matter which they can ascertain for themselves with tolerable certainty, and therefore they can arrange to put it upon their customers, and can recover this duty as they recovered that. With regard to the argument about the private brewers, there would be a good deal of force in it, if we found that private brewing had increased since the change was made; but I do not find that this is the case. With regard to the penal-
 673 674 1âches 675 676 d. 677 1. That the Duties of Customs now chargeable on the under-mentioned goods upon their importation into Great Britain or Ireland shall cease and determine on and after the respective dales hereinafter mentioned (that is to say): On Sugar, viz. Candy, Brown or White; Refined Sugar, or Sugar rendered by any process equal in quality thereto; Manufactures of Refined Sugar; on and after the twenty-first day of May, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four: And on Sugar, viz. Not equal to Refined— First Class; Second Class; Third Class; Fourth Class (including Cane Juice); Molasses; Almonds, Baste of; Cherries, Dried; Comfits, Dry; 678 Confectionery, not otherwise enumerated; Ginger, Preserved; Marmalade; Succadoes, including all Fruits and Vegetables preserved in Sugar, not otherwise enumerated; on and after the first day of May, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four. 2. That, in lieu of the Duties of Customs now chargeable on the under-mentioned articles, the following Duties of Customs shall be charged on and after the first day of May, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, on the importation thereof into Great Britain or Ireland: (that is to say,) on
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was intended to extend the same relief to Ireland as to England and Scotland in that respect.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, thanked the Committee for the favourable reception which the proposals he had laid before them had received at both sides of the House. He could not help thinking that with the surplus at the disposal of Her Majesty's Government, his task had been a comparatively easy one. He was glad that, upon the whole, the Committee appeared to think he had made a fair and right selection of taxes to be abolished or reduced. This he could certainly say, in confirmation of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz)—that they had been solely anxious to do that which should be best for the general interests of the country without caring to inquire whether land or town would benefit most by their proposals. He believed with the hon. Member, however, that, in many instances, towns would receive a larger share of benefit than the country, and the Government were particularly anxious to promote the improvement of the dwellings of the people in towns. No particular questions had been raised in the course of the discussion to which he need advert at length. With reference to an observation that had
 699
 COLONEL BARTTELOT , while congratulating his right hon. Friend both on the position he now filled and on the surplus he had at his command, also congratulated a right hon. Gentleman not then in his place (Mr. Gladstone) on the substantial accuracy of the statement he had recently made as to the state of the national finances. He had never denied or concealed from himself that the right hon. Member for Greenwich was a man on the substantial correctness of whose figures they could rely. As to the horse duty, agriculturists had enjoyed exemption, and he was glad the commercial community would be benefited by the abolition of the tax. With respect to the malt tax, there was no longer the same agitation as when the price of barley was from 26 s s s d. 696 s
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, he was happy to be able to join in the congratulations offered to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the Budget which he had produced. He considered that the right hon. Gentleman had made a good use of the splendid inheritance to which he had suddenly and unexpectedly succeeded. The House appeared to be tolerably satisfied with his financial scheme, and he fancied that the country
 694 695
 VISCOUNT SANDON : I am glad to have an opportunity of replying to the question, as the Motion appears to have excited considerable interest in Scotland. When the Lord President and myself entered the Education Office we received
 633 "1. That the regulations in regard to the width of school-rooms of which the area exceeds 500 square feet he altered to give liberty to School Boards to adopt any width up to 32ft., and "2. That, in the case of all schools, the School Boards be left free in regard to the arrangement of the furniture." 634
 CAPTAIN PRICE  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether, with reference to honours distributed to Officers of the Naval and Military services who were engaged in the late Ashantee War, Lieutenants Royal Navy, when gazetted in Despatches for distinguished conduct in the war, are on promotion to higher rank eligible for the honour of C.B.; and, if not, if he would explain to the House why they are excluded from a privilege accorded to Medical Officers Royal Navy, and to Military Officers holding the same or junior rank?
 MR. BASS  inquired, Whether the President of the Board of Trade has any intention of providing compensation for Railway Servants, in respect of injuries produced by want of care or improvidence on the part of their employers?
 MAJOR BEAUMONT  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, If the Government has had its attention drawn to the fact that more than eighty thousand pounds a-year are derived from surplus Patent Fees, while the Patent Museum affords totally inadequate accommodation to the unrivalled collection of machinery and models now exhibited there; and, whether he can hold out any hopes that suitable premises will be provided?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he hoped to be able to bring in the Bill on Monday week.
 MR. GOLDSMID , remarking that the Tote, like nearly all the rest, included charges for "copying and writers," inquired whether it was intended to do anything with a view to ameliorating the position of the writers in the various public Departments? They were a body of men who deserved consideration, and if their duties were uniform and monotonous, still they required care, intelligence, and accuracy, and a considerable amount of information.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, that too much heat had been imported into the discussion. He was of opinion that the hon. Member for Wexford (Sir George Bowyer) was right in asking whether the Secretary to the Treasury would not consider this matter with a view to making the Audit Office more independent of the Treasury, and thereby more able to discharge its duties. The experience of the past year had certainly shown that this was a subject of great importance.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  hoped the Committee would go on with Supply, and thought the hon. and learned Gentleman should have made his Motion during the presence of the Prime Minister, who had just left the House on account of the state of his health. He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that there would be ample time for the discussion of the measure referred to.
 MR. SULLIVAN , in supporting the Bill, said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance) had put the Corporation of Dublin upon its trial, and had made the most unfounded charges against it. The argument of the hon. Gentleman amounted to this—that although the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick might be unanswerable, the Corporation of Dublin had not represented the political views of the hon. Member for Armagh. With regard to the alleged agreement that the Lord Mayor should be alternately a Protestant and a Roman Catholic, the hon. Gentleman was labouring under a delusion, for no such compact ever existed. It was certainly true that the Catholics of Dublin for a long period in alternate years voted for a Protestant gentleman, and had put him into the civic chair—a pro-
 781 s s d., s d
 MR. STANLEY  said, the Vote was proposed in pursuance of the Act of 1871 which enabled officers to obtain the price of their commissions which might otherwise have been obtained by sale. As to delaying the presentation of that Estimate till the Report of the Commission was before the House, the Commission were still sitting, their Report had not yet been finally settled, and according to an answer which had been given early in the evening by the First Lord of the Admiralty, under any circumstances it would probably be a month before it could be laid on the Table. He had no further means of knowing what the Report might be than the hon. and gallant Member; but the matter referred to the Commission involved questions of great complexity, and the recommendation which some might wish them to make would no doubt lead to a large expenditure of public money. Meeting, as that Report would no doubt do, with the fullest considerations from the Secretary of State and others who were concerned, even if it were received at an early date it would be practically almost impossible to deal with it in a satisfactory manner in the latter half of the Session, so as to admit of its being brought before the House.
 LORD ESLINGTON  said, he was glad that his hon. Friend, than whom no man was more fit for the task, had directed the attention of the House to that subject the question of the Naval Reserve had been neglected or deliberately set aside by the late Government, as was shown by the Tote for it diminishing for several years past. He was also fortified in that assertion from the circumstance that the right hon. Gentleman the late First Lord of the Admiralty, speaking publicly somewhere last winter, said that—
 "the defence of our shores is only a remote and unlikely duty for the Fleet to be tailed upon to perform." We should expect them to he
 733
 LORD ESLINGTON  presumed that if the ships in commission were doubled, the number of the Reserve would be approximately arrived at, and that half
 734 nil, 735 nil Warspite Chichester 736 Warspite Warspite
 LORD ESLINGTON  said, he had not spoken in an offensive spirit at all. He
 737
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  in reply, said, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that all the executive and administrative business of the India Office was transacted by the Secretary of State in Council the discussions and deliberations of the Council were secret, except when individual Members dissented from the conclusions arrived at by the majority and recorded their dissent, together with their reasons for it. But the results of the proceedings of the Secretary of State in Council were contained in the despatches and telegrams which were sent by the Secretary of State to the various Indian Governments. The
 712
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE , in rising, to call the attention of the House to the circumstance that there is no power to grant any pensions to the widows and families of those civil servants of the Crown who die while in the performance of their duties, whatever may have been the duration of their public service, and more especially with reference to the Foreign and Colonial Services; and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the alleged grievances of the widows and orphans of those civil servants of the Crown who die in the service of the Country are worthy of the consideration of Her Majesty's Government," 719 "It was some time ago the practice in the Civil Service of this country to allot pensions to the widows and female relatives of public servants who died in the discharge of their public duties: but that practice, speaking generally, had for some, time passed into desuetude. In the whole range of the Revenue Service of this country, no pensions were allotted to the widows or female relatives of public officers who died in the discharge of their duty; in the case of clerks in public offices, men who performed the greatest service to the country, and who died in the public service, after continuing in it 30, 40, or 50 years, Parliament had allotted no means of making provisions for their widows or female relatives. In the Army and Navy pensions were given in many instances; in the Civil Service men were cut off in the prime of life, and no means existed of making provisions."
 MR. BAILLIE-COCHRANE  explained that the extract he had just read was from a letter of Sir Robert Peel, which was submitted to the Committee
 720 "The considerations of justice and public utility which have regulated the pensions in the State Establishment are not less important in all Establishments, and this rule should be applied to the Departments and Communes as well as to the State itself; the Government, therefore, invites the Departments and Communes to set aside funds for the families of the Civil Servants."
 MR. GODDARD  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether he can inform the House when the Report of the Purchase Officers' Commission will be laid on the Table?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, there have been of late frequent communications respecting the affairs of the Suez Canal, and it is quite, as my hon. Friend has just mentioned, true that among several telegrams which have been received, there is one announcing that M. Lesseps had informed the Khedive that, being unable to work the Canal under the conditions imposed by the Commission, he would dismiss the pilots, extinguish the lights, and thus virtually close the Canal the Porte, however, has instructed the Khedive to insist on the complete fulfilment of those conditions; and knowing M. Lesseps myself, knowing also that he is a man of sense, I have for my own part very little fear that he will not yield to the circumstances of the case. We
 715
 MR. DISRAELI : I would only remark that I believe the arrangement was made before the late Prime Minister became Chancellor of the Exchequer. Indeed, it took place when the Government of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich was first formed. I do not wish to dwell upon the point, I only desire to show that the course which the present Government have taken is a regular one, and that in appointing three Lords of the Treasury we have only followed the rule laid down by the Committee which sat on Public Offices.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Limerick is under a complete misapprehension upon this subject. There is no rule that there should be a Scotch or an Irish Lord of the Treasury, neither is there a rule that there should be an English Lord of the Treasury—indeed, there is no reason why the three Lords should not all be Irishmen. In the first Treasury, in fact, of which I was a Member the majority were Irishmen. It depends upon their fitness, not upon their nationality whether hon. Members are appointed to fill those offices, and I should be glad to have the assistance of any Irish Gentlemen thus qualified who wish to support Her Majesty's Government, but who at present do not. I can assure the hon. and learned Member that he is labouring under a false impression, and that there is not any fixed rule by which we deprive ourselves of the services of our Irish Colleagues in this House. The hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Whitwell) has also made an observation upon the change that he states has been made in
 766
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY  said, the tenor of the last few speeches rendered it necessary for him, as being connected with the Board of Trade, to say a few words before the debate closed. He thought the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Norwood), who introduced what he might call the second part of the debate, exercised a wise discretion in bringing his subject forward in the discussion raised by the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey), rather than separately by itself, for it was germane to the subject of that hon. Member's speech, and inadmissible as a distinct proposition. It proposed that the condition of our seamen, and procedure of our wreck Courts, ought to be referred to the Royal Commission which was now investigating the subject of Unseaworthy Ships. The fact, however, was that both the subjects had been referred to them, and were within the terms of the Royal Commissioners' Warrant. Indeed, they had taken extensive evidence on both of them, and had even expressed, to a certain extent, an opinion on both subjects in their preliminary Report which was presented to the House last Session. That circumstance rendered it difficult, and perhaps unwise, for any one to pass a decided opinion on either of those subjects as still being under the judgment of a very competent tribunal. Of course, nothing could be of more importance than the condition of the seamen in our Mercantile Marine, which was the basis of the vigour and prosperity of this great commercial
 754 755 756 757
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY  explained that the item of £5,000 was a rough estimate of expenses connected with proceedings taken under the Act passed last year, the provisions of which would be steadily enforced. If the whole amount were not spent, of course the balance would be returned to the Treasury. The item of £400 appeared for the first time, because until this year the expense of inquiries had been borne by the Treasury. He hoped the sum would not be required, though it might be if there were three or four cases like one which had occurred already.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY  said, that the office had been re-organized by the late Government, and there were annual increments, in accordance with a Treasury Minute, which applied to all the salaries of the Department.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY , in reply, said, that the subject was under consideration, but that at present no measure was prepared upon it.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : The casualty to the  Kron Prinz
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : I expect to have soon to introduce a short Bill supplementing the Act of last year amending the Railway and Canal Traffic Act. As to any measure requiring railway companies to provide greater security against accidents, I can only repeat what my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer said yesterday—that the subject is engaging the best attention of the Government, and I hope shortly to be able to make a further statement upon it.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : The Ministry of Marine in Madrid have ordered an inquiry into the collision between the British ship  Ellen Constance Vittoria,
 MR. MELDON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Is it the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill to facilitate the registration in Ireland of persons entitled to the franchise, and to prevent the making of frivolous' objections?
 MR. MELDON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill this Session applicable to Ireland for the amendment of the Married Women's Property Act, 1870?
 MR. MONK  said, he was of the same opinion, and hoped the Government would give the hon. Member an answer before the Vote was passed.
 MR. MONK  said, that while anxious for reduction where a case could be made out, he could not support the Amendment. Lord Redesdale had held the office many years; he had been admittedly able and indefatigable, and he was not overpaid. The difference between the two salaries was fair matter of remark, but perhaps that of the Chairman in this House was not sufficient.
 MR. MONK  said, that no doubt those were the Estimates of the last Government, and were framed under the impression that the House would meet on the 5th of February. As a matter of fact, however, it did not meet till six weeks later, and no Committees had sat before Easter. Notwithstanding that fact, he saw an increase in the Vote for Witnesses and Shorthand Writers, &c., employed on Committees, and he wished to know, therefore, whether the hon. Gentleman would consent to a reduction in the Vote to the extent of £550, the amount of the increase.
 MR. NORWOOD , who had a Notice on the Paper to call attention to the desirability of extending the terms of the Warrant constituting the Royal Commission on Unseaworthy Ships, so as to include the Inquiry into the character and condition of the Crews of British Merchant Ships, and into the best means for ensuring in the future a supply of efficient officers and seamen, and also the Inquiry into the constitution, procedure, and powers of Courts of Inquiry into Wrecks and Casualties, said that the subject which he wished to bring before the House was so intimately connected with the one under discussion that they might advantageously be considered together, for it was evident that upon the condition of the Mercantile Marine depended the number and quality of the Royal Naval Reserve. He regretted that he did not share the sanguine views which the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey) took of the state of the Mercantile Marine, which from careful inquiry, as well as from personal experience, he believed to have greatly deteriorated of late years. The  physique, 746 747 The Times, 748 laches 749
 MR. NORWOOD  said, he took exception to the provision of the sum of £5,000 for the costs of inquiries as to ships that were alleged to be unseaworthy, fearing that it indicated an indisposition to enforce the provision which enabled the Board to require the deposit of securities for costs from informants against the condition of vessels should charges be made with insufficient reason. Last year the Board of Trade took action against certain vessels upon false information and incurred expenses in consequence. There was also an entirely new item of £400 for inquiries into shipwrecks.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he was surprised to hear that it was believed the shipowners of this country were averse from employing men who had engaged in the Royal Naval Reserve. As a shipowner himself, he had many such men in his employ, connected with the port of Leith, and he employed them only too willingly, and he could testify to the preference given by other shipowners to such men. He believed that if the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Admiralty would only put himself in communication with the shipowners at the different ports, and fix various periods of drill, so as to suit the different trading seasons, he would find no difficulty in largely increasing the Reserve.
 MR. M'LAREN  remarked that a very small percentage on the schemes adjudicated by the Commissioners would defray the expenses. Many of the charities were of questionable utility or were mismanaged, and the Commissioners having
 771
 MR. M'LAREN  said, it was not so much a question of independence, as of power to remedy wrongs such as were set forth in the Report issued that morning.
 MR. M'LAREN  agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Wexford (Sir George Bowyer) that a reform was needed in this matter, but he dissented from his opinion as to the services of the clerk who was paid £150 a-year.
 773
 MR. M'LAREN  mentioned that a Motion had been passed several years ago at the instance of the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney), to the effect that there should no longer be a charge on the public in respect of the subject of this Vote and he considered that Resolution ought to be attended to.
 MR. O'DONNELL  said, that on the part of his co-religionists in Ireland he would be satisfied with religious equality. They wanted no Established Church in Ireland even for the majority, and if they obtained by the present measure both religious equality and municipal equality they would think there was a beginning of justice for their country.
 MR. O'DONNELL  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether the Government has any objection to communicate to Parliament a Report of the proceedings of the Council of State for India during the three months ending the 31st day of December last, and thus to enable Parliament to judge of the influence exerted by the Council during that critical period of preparation against the impending calamity of the Bengal Famine?
 MR. BENTINCK  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether any Correspondence has taken place between the Government of this Country and the Spanish Government relative to the running down of the British merchant vessel "Ellen Constance "by the Spanish ironclad" Vittoria "on the coast of Spain; and, when that Correspondence, if any, will be laid on the Table of the House?
 MR. BENTINCK  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce, during the present Session, any legislation for the bettor prevention of accidents on Railways?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had introduced a subject of equal importance with that brought forward by the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey), because there could be no doubt that the deterioration of the character of the men of the Mercantile Ma-
 750 751
 MR. GOSCHEN  explained that his statement was that the seamen and marines were sufficient to man not only the ships in commission, but the ships which would be put in commission, there being ships of the Reserve which would be put in commission within a reasonable time.
 MR. GOSCHEN , in continuation, said, the noble Lord had not only quoted his words, but had put a gloss upon them which he ventured to say, without desiring to use an offensive expression, and confining himself to Parliamentary language, differed entirely from their real meaning, and was calculated to convey a totally false impression of what he (Mr. Goschen) had said. He thought that the noble Lord could not be perfectly serious when he charged him with neglecting the Reserve Force, or that he had not done him the honour to listen to his remarks on previous occasions, when he (Mr. Goschen) not only expressed the interest he took in the matter, but proposed schemes to the House for increasing that Force he had drawn up regulations with respect to these Reserves, and in the last year the Royal Naval Reserve, so far from falling off, had been increased by 2,000 men. It was scarcely fair, therefore, of the noble Lord to put such a construction on what he had said. The noble Lord had quoted two circumstances in favour of the construction which he put upon his views. The one was the reduction of the annual Vote, and the other certain words he (Mr. Goschen) had used with regard to the defensive measures adopted by this country. With regard to the latter, he would state to the House and the noble Lord what his feeling was. What he had said in effect was that naval authorities had been more anxious with regard to the offensive powers of this country than with regard to defensive measures, and if he was not much mistaken he first gave expression to these views—which he distinctly avowed—when referring to the anxiety which was manifested on the subject of coast defence as compared with that of sea-going ships, for during late years the amount of public attention which had been concentrated upon defending harbours in England was, he thought, somewhat unworthy of a great maritime nation. What he meant to express was this—that for a country claiming to be supreme on every sea, to be always speaking of and confining its attention to defensive measures was a thing which could not be generally approved. Further, what he was speaking of was not with regard to Naval Reserves as com-
 738 739 740 Devastation 741 quid pro quo 742
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he was as glad as the noble Lord who had just sat down that his hon. Friend the Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey) had taken an early opportunity of bringing the subject of the Naval Reserve of this country under the consideration of the new House of Commons, and he trusted that the new House would look with favour on that most important Force, and that when hon. Members brought the subject forward with the industry, accuracy, and talent of the hon. Member for Hastings, the House would always receive thorn with the attention they deserved. The noble Lord who had just sat down had charged him (Mr. Goschen) with intentional neglect of the Reserve Forces of the Navy.
 MR. GREGORY  said, that having been a practising Parliamentary solicitor for many years, he could fully appreciate the labours of the Chairman of Committees of the House of Lords. He had most arduous duties to perform. Private Bills were every day more complicated and difficult to be understood, and the Chairman of Committees in the House of Lords had to make himself acquainted with the history of the transactions and of the undertakings to which they related. There never was a more zealous or better Chairman than Lord Redesdale, and his remuneration was not more than was adequate for the labour he had to perform. He concurred in the remark that the salary of the Chairman of Committees of this House was much too low.
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not feel called upon to reply at length to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Goschen), because it could scarcely be expected that he should be in a position to do so, having held office for so short a period. He might, however, venture to assure the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey) and his noble Friend on his right (Lord Eslington) that the subject of our Naval Reserves was of the greatest interest to him, and that he should fool it to be his duty to devote a considerable time to the examination of the various questions which related to them. The right hon. Gentleman opposite was quite right when he said that the Naval Reserve had increased in number since he brought forward the Navy Estimates last year. In April 1873, when the hon. Member for Hastings addressed the House, the Royal Naval Reserve consisted of 11,500 men, whereas it now consisted of 13,900, showing an increase in the number of men in the force of 2,400–2,000 of that number were men who had joined the Second Class of the Reserve, and he be believed about 700 of them were men who had formerly belonged to the Royal Naval Coastguard he could assure his noble Friend that, although it was impossible for him to take up this question at once, still he should make an effort to render our Naval Reserve system as perfect as possible. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had pointed out the difficulties in which men of the Royal Naval Reserve and shipowners also found themselves in consequence of the men being obliged to drill at certain times. The great remedy for those difficulties
 743
 MR. HUNT : Sir, the Report of the Royal Commission will probably be presented to Her Majesty by the end of this mouth or early next month. After such presentation no time will be lost in laying it on the Table of the House.
 MR. HUNT : Sir, by the statutes in force relating to the Order of the Bath lieutenants of the Royal Navy are not eligible for the honour of C.B. When promoted to the rank of commander they become eligible. Great consideration was given by the Admiralty to the claims of all officers serving on the Gold Coast, and the recommendations to Her Majesty were made according to the best judgment that they were able to form.
 714
 CAPTAIN G. PRICE  thanked the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey) for the lucid explanation which he had given to the House, and cordially agreed with the object he had in view—the increase of the Naval Reserve. As an officer of some experience he wished to call the attention of the House to one point. He thought the Royal Naval Coast Volunteers, which, as had been said, were composed almost entirely of fishermen, might be advantageously merged into the Royal Naval Reserve. The naval coast defence consisted of ships of the newest type, large turret ships and a new class of gunboats; but both alike carried very heavy guns, which could only be worked by men specially trained. If, therefore, we had to man our ships at a notice of a month or six weeks it would take some months, or even a year, for any respectable number of Naval Reserve men to be made efficient enough to man these ships. In his opinion the men upon whom we should have in time; of difficulty to rely for this purpose were the Coastguard, the Pensioners, and the Royal Marines—more particularly the Royal Marine Artillery. For that reason he would suggest that a greater number of marines should be kept on shore, and that the body generally should be augmented and instructed in gunnery. There was also a large number of young men in our Dockyards who were doing nothing, who might be sent to sea and made efficient in their drill. Every endeavour should be made not to make the drill of the Reserve irksome to the men, and, as they might be supposed to be fairly in-
 745
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that at a still earlier period there was a third Lord, with a salary of £2,000; indeed, there were four Lords, for a noble Lord
 768
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, if the hon. Baronet would look at the various Reports of the Committee on Public Accounts, he would find they gave ample testimony of the great efficiency and zeal of the Auditor General, and his officers. Nothing more satisfactory could be conceived than the mode in which he analyzed and exercised authority over the public accounts in respect of sums voted by the House.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  pointed out that the Commissioners who had to deal with the matter they were discussing were in a sense public officers, seeing that they acted as a kind of intermediary between the State and the Corporations which were the holders of public property. Their net cost to the State was only £4,000, and he thought this fairly represented the value of their services. With regard to the Resolution passed in 1868 to which the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) had referred, it seemed to him that its requirements had been satisfactorily met.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, he intended doing so, and he hoped to introduce the Bill on Thursday next.
 MR. BRUEN  said, he did not want to be included in the stigma which the hon. and learned Member for limerick laid on all those who opposed the Bill. It was said to be simply a measure to place the municipal franchise of Ireland on the same footing as that of England, but the slightest glance at the statistics would show that it was nothing of the sort. When the franchise of England was changed to household suffrage, it rather more than doubled the previous number of electors, but what would be the effect of this measure in Ireland? Taking the seven towns of the Province of Leinster, exclusive of Dublin, he found that there were now 3,210 persons possessors of the franchise under a £4 rating; but the Bill of the hon. Member would increase that number to 9,764, or three to one. And when they analysed these new voters they would find that of these a large number—about 3,000—would be holders of tenements under 20 s s
 MR. BUTT , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that its principle had been accepted in two Sessions of the late Parliament; that it had received the support of the then Ministry, and that it was defeated solely by that obstructive power which the Rules of the House placed in the hands of individual Members. The Bill involved the question whether that new Parliament was prepared cordially and honestly to concede to Ireland the free principles of the British Constitution and of British laws, or whether it intended to administer the affairs of Ireland on the old principle of coercion and distrust. The object of the measure was merely to assimilate the franchise in the corporate towns of Ireland to the franchise which existed in England. As matters stood at present in Ireland, no one could be a burgess in a corporate town, unless he occupied a house rated at £10, though the Act said the sum might be reduced by allowances for insurance and repairs. That reduced the
 778 779
 MR. BUTT  said, he was not asking for much, only for 20 minutes, because Supply ought not to go on after midnight, and the first Bill had already passed a second reading twice, and had been defeated by obstruction and the half-past 12 o'clock rule. But, under the circumstances, in the absence of the Prime Minister, if an undertaking were given that some facility would be afforded him for bringing on the Bills he would not persist in his Motion.
 MR. BUTT  said, he should move to report Progress, in order that he might bring on the first of two Irish Municipal Bills which he had introduced. He claimed the privilege of interrupting Supply at that time (20 minutes to 12 o'clock) because he had put the Bills off three times to meet the convenience of the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland.
 MR. BUTT  said, he differed entirely from the right hon. Baronet, who had asked for postponement because he was not prepared to meet the Bills, but his want of acquaintance with Ireland was no reason why the progress of the Bills should be impeded. If they were to be obstructed, he would obstruct Supply.
 MR. BUTT  said, he had been under the impression that the Civil Service Estimates taken that evening would be confined to a particular class; otherwise he should have been prepared to show that there was a very strong feeling in Ireland, even among those who were outside the Home Rule party, in favour of having a branch of the Board of Trade established in Dublin to attend to local matters, which could be better disposed of there than by the Central Board in London.
 MR. BUTT  said, he did not attach much importance to the point except as an indication of the progress of centralization, which he conceived to be most injurious if earned out in its entirety. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that there was no fixed rule that one of
 767
 MR. BUTT  called the attention of the Committee to what he called a change in the constitution of the Lords of the Treasury. Formerly it was customary to appoint an Irish Member one of the Lords of the Treasury, which was to a certain extent a convenient arrangement; but that course was now departed from, and he understood that it was intended systematically to depart from it.
 MR. BUTT  said, he deemed it beyond the province of the House, in the absence of any complaint, to express an opinion on the services of the Chairman of Committees in the House of Lords. His remuneration was very moderate, and it was almost absurd to put forward a reduction of £1,000 on the ground of economizing the expenditure.
 MR. J. W. BARCLAY  remarked that the Board of Trade, in ordering the detention of vessels, carried out the Act
 769
 MR. GRIEVE  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he had any objection to alter the day for the abolition of the Sugar Duties from the 21st of May to the 21st of June?
 MR. DODSON  expressed a hope that his hon. Friend the member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) would content himself with having called attention to the subject of his Motion, and would not divide the Committee. He trusted he would not be suspected of an undue sympathy with the office of Chairman of Ways and Means, when he said that it was somewhat anomalous that the holder of that office, whoso duties were more onerous than those of the Chairman of Committees of the House of Lords, should be paid so much lower a salary than that paid to the noble Lord who filled the latter office. As had been very justly observed, the noble Lord who occupied that position had discharged the duties of his office for many years with very great distinction, and the salary ought not to be disturbed so long, at any rate, as the noble Lord filled the office in question. "When, however, a change was made, it would be fair matter for consideration whether the salaries of the two Chairmen ought not to be reviewed. It appeared to him that, when that time came, without adding to the taxation of the country, the salaries of the two officers might be put together and equally divided between the Chairmen of Committees respectively.
 MR. DODSON  said, he had no wish to continue the discussion on the Treasury, but he wished to state that when he acceded to the office of Secretary to the Treasury last autumn there were at that time only two Lords of the Treasury, and had been but two for a considerable time. When the Prime Minister became Chancellor of the Exchequer a third Lord was appointed to assist him.
 MR. DODSON : I should like to say one word with reference to what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. It is perfectly correct that recently under the late Government there were three Lords of the Treasury, one of whom did receive a larger salary than the others; but it should be borne in mind that at that time there was no Chancellor of the Exchequer, apart from the Prime Minister, he having undertaken that office in conjunction with his own; a third Lord was thereupon appointed to assist the Financial Secretary. I wish to point out that so far, therefore, from there having been any additional expenditure, there was some saving.
 MR. VANCE  thought the complaint of the hon. and learned Gentleman was without foundation, because he could not have brought the Bills on at an earlier period.
 MR. VANCE  said, he could not help thinking the hon. and learned Gentleman had pursued a most inconvenient course, having persisted in bringing forward the second reading of this Bill in the necessary absence Of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Claude John Hamilton), who had given Notice that he would oppose it, but who had accompanied the viceroy to Ireland. After the Report of a Commission in 1835, a Bill was brought in and passed, conferring an £8 municipal franchise on the larger boroughs, and a £1 or £5 franchise on
 780 s
 MR. WHITWELL  said, he wished to remark that no less than £130,000 had been received in the Patent Office during the past year, and after all expenses were paid a balance of £81,000 was left. Notwithstanding that large surplus, it was an acknowledged fact that the Museum of Patents was in a not very reputable condition. He suggested that either so much money should not be drawn from the pockets of patentees or that the surplus should be voted to some useful purpose in connection with the subject.
 MR. WHITWELL  inquired why there were now three Lords of the Treasury appointed in the place of the two who sufficed under the late Government?
 MR. WHITWELL  asked in what department of the Board of Trade there was an increase of £2,000 for salaries. He also wished to know whether the £500 charged for maintaining the rights of the Crown to the foreshores represented expenses incurred over and above the ordinary expenses?
 MR. WHITWELL  asked whether this body had yet become self-supporting?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that having just asked the House to reduce the salary of a Nobleman who had important duties to perform, he should now ask the House to refuse the salary of a Nobleman who had no duties whatever he had always taken exception to the Vote, although he was prepared to admit the sense of the House was invariably against him. It was said to be necessary that the Prime Minister should have some one to assist him who had no departmental duties to perform, but he would rather vote the money to a Minister without portfolio than keep up a sinecure like that of the Lord Privy Seal. The Lord Privy Seal, as he said before, had nothing to do, and he had a large establishment to help him in doing it. For those reasons, he (Mr. Dillwyn) objected to the Vote  in toto,
 MR. DILLWYN  said, the hon. Baronet did right in moving that Progress
 774
 MR. DILLWYN  remarked that he thought the Audit Office ought to be entirely independent of the Treasury, and under the control of this House. The audit could not be satisfactory if the Treasury had any power in the office; the Treasury being the accounting department whose accounts had to be audited.
 MR. DILLWYN  wished to know something about the office of Auditor of the Civil List, whose duties could not be very onerous?
 MR. DILLWYN  assured the Committee that in taking the course he had adopted he had done so on principle, and in persisting in it, he did so without meaning anything personal towards the noble Lord, for whom he had the highest
 764
 MR. DILLWYN  said, the Committee could not increase a Vote, and their Chairman's salary, though, perhaps, lower than might have been expected, was one of those settled by a Select Committee. The House of Lords had not considered their salaries in the same way, and he wished they would refer this and other points to a Joint Committee.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, there were many items in this Vote which he thought might he reduced, and that he proposed to move its reduction in order to test the opinion of the new House as to whether it was their duty to reduce the expenditure or not. What he complained of in this case was that the officers of the other House were paid much more than those of the House of Commons, although their duties certainly were not more onerous—either they were overpaid, or the officers of the House of Commons underpaid. He did not blame the Government for adopting the Estimate of their predecessors, but he hoped they would consider the propriety of a reduction. The Chairman of Committees of the House of Lords received £2,500, while the Chairman of Committees of this House, whose duties, he believed, were much more arduous, received £1,500. Seeing no reason for that difference, he would move the reduction of the Vote by £1,000.
 MR. DILLWYN  asked for some explanation with respect to this Vote. A very large sum was paid under this head to Law Officers in Scotland and Ireland who did absolutely nothing for the money. Not only that, but if the Patent Law Amendment Act was carried out at all it should be carried out in its entirety, and that Act required that Special Commissioners should be appointed for the purpose of carrying it into effect. If that was done, the Patent Law would give much greater satisfaction than it did at present he should move to reduce the Vote by the sum of £3,450, the amount paid to the Law Officers of Ireland and Scotland.
 DR. LYON PLAYFAIR  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether he intends to introduce this year a Bill for the Compulsory Registration of Births and for the better verification of the causes of Deaths?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill of this Session to amend the Married Women's Property Act, 1870—which he believed had passed the second reading—had for some reason, of which he (Sir Michael Hicks-Beach) was not aware, introduced a clause providing that it should not apply to Ireland. If the hon. Member for Kildare would propose in Committee to omit that provision, he knew no reason why the Committee should not assent to that proposal.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : The hon. Member himself has given Notice of his intention to introduce a Bill for the purposes to which he refers, and, as the question has not yet been considered by the Government, and is full of difficulty, I should like, on the part of the Government, to have an opportunity of making myself acquainted with the provisions of the Bill so to be introduced by the hon. Member, on a subject to which he has devoted so much attention, before deciding whether I myself will bring in a Bill on the subject.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that was a Bill which did not relate to a large portion of Ireland, but was a matter of great importance to the 11 places which were affected by it. In discussing it he hoped to steer clear of the public and private conduct of the Corporation of Dublin, which in a few hours would be engaged in giving a loyal reception to the Representative of Her Majesty in Ireland. He wished to speak of that and of all the other corporations with respect; but neither from them, nor from any town in Ireland, had there been a single Petition in favour of the Bill, nor had there been any meeting held in its support. The hon. and learned Member for Limerick proposed that as the first of a series of measures to assimilate the law of Ireland to that of England; but he would remind the hon. Member that if this policy
 783 784
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  thought the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) hardly fair, because the Bills had been put down for a second reading before they were printed, and for days when they could not come on.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  explained that he had given his vote not for the purpose of reducing the salary of the Chairman of Committees of the House of Lords, but in the hope that the House of Commons would take a more just view of the position of its Chairman of Committees and of its other officers, as in his opinion they were very much underpaid.
 MR. NEVILLE GRENVILLE  hoped that for the future the expenses of the Commission might be defrayed out of fees charged upon the charities with which the Commissioners dealt, with so much advantage to the public, so that it might be made, as it onght to be, self-supporting.
 MR. POWER  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Public Works Loan Commissioners are prepared to grant money to Local Authorities in Ireland for sanitary purposes, the object being approved, at the same rate of interest as granted to England at the same time, and subject to the same period for the repayment of such loans?
 MR. BOURKE , in reply to an hon. Member, said, several communications had reached Her Majesty's Government with regard to the tribes near Aden. The Turkish Ambassador had informed his noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that the son of the Aliwee Sheikh was released. The Resident at Aden had been instructed to report how the affairs of the tribes in the neighbourhood of Aden now stood.
 MR. T. BRASSEY , in rising to call attention to the organization of the Royal Naval Reserve and the importance of establishing a close connection between the Royal Navy and the Mercantile Marine, said, the House need not approach the subject with any misgiving as to the great extent of the naval resources of the country. The number of seamen and seafaring persons employed on board ships entering and leaving the ports of the United Kingdom was not less than 407,000, and in that estimate he did not include the vast number of ships flying the British flag in colonial and foreign waters. He believed he was correct in saying that if we had a maritime conscription such as existed in France we should be able to muster a force of not less than 700,000 men to man our fleet. He did not think, therefore, it was necessary to submit a formal Resolution on the subject. Our available naval reserve was of enormous extent as compared with that of other nations, and it would be unreasonable to expect that the First Lord of the Admiralty, who had so recently taken office, would be prepared to declare his adhesion to any definite policy on the subject. As a means of comparison, he would quote a few figures from an interesting speech delivered last year by Commander Goodenough at the United
 725 726 727 728 729 d 730 Warspite 731 Ariadne Ariadne bonâ fide 732 Conway Worcester, Excellent
 MR. EARP  asked on what principle the payments were regulated. He found that 13 clerks were kept in this Department at £150 a-year, while one clerk, a copying clerk, was returned at £52 a-year. If that clerk happened to be a man with a very large wife and a small family he would ask how he could be expected to conduct himself as a man should in the employment of the Government?
 MR. THOMPSON  objected to the sum charged for the travelling expenses of the inspectors of the Board.
 MR. THOMPSON  wished for an explanation as to the increase of salaries in the Department?
 MR. HANKEY  agreed with those who objected to any charge whatever being made on account of the matter to which the Vote referred.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  thought the Committee would hardly expect him to give an undertaking on so important a question. Several years ago the late Government undertook to do something in the matter, but they fouud it encompassed with difficulties with which they were unable to grapple. All he could say was, that the question should be considered.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, it appeared that the hon. Member did not object to the Prime Minister having assistance, but he only objected to the title of Lord Privy Seal. [Mr. DILLWYN: And the establishment.] The salary was £2,000 a-year, and the establishment was £600 a-year. Successive Governments had rccognized the advantage of maintaining an office held by a Member of the Cabinet who was not so fully engaged by departmental duties as some of his Colleagues, and who might assist the Cabinet upon questions requiring special consideration, and the late Prime Minister himself had borne testimony to the value and necessity of having a Member of the Cabinet who was almost without portfolio, but who, by his experience and knowledge of Parliamentary life and public business, might give important assistance to the great work of governing the country. He therefore trusted the present Parliament, like its predecessor, would see the wisdom of following the same course.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, there was every disposition to make the Audit Office as efficient an instrument as possible for the purpose for which it was designed. It was entirely independent of the Treasury, and any differences between the two were settled by the Committee on Public Accounts. Its staff was recruited under Orders in Council by the Civil Service Commissioners, but occasionally it was required to absorb redundant clerks, just as other offices were required to do, on the score of economy.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, he wished to remind the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid), who had referred to the case of the writers, that a Commission had been appointed to consider that subject and the organization of the
 772
 MR. W. H. SMITH  replied that the office was hold by the Assistant Secretary to the Treasury.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  replied that it was the usual custom that there should be three Lords of the Treasury, and in adopting that number the Government had been only following that custom.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, he would endeavour in future to give the House the fullest notice of the business to be brought on. Circumstances occurred at the last moment which made it inconvenient to the Committee to consider Class I., and hon. Members on both sides had been aware of the intention to proceed with Class II. That was comparatively a new Vote, as far as the House of Lords was concerned, for until four years ago that House retained the power which they had possessed from time immemorial of fixing the salaries for their own establishment. Their surrender of it and of the fees out of which the establishment had been paid was an act of grace, and it would be assuming a false position towards them for
 763
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, he could not do so. The Estimates had been printed before he came into office, and he could not revise them. The slight
 765
 MR. W. H. SMITH  replied, that these were paid by Act of Parliament and therefore could not be altered.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, he was unable to withdraw the items to which the hon. Member for Swansea objected, as they related to sums of money which helped to make up the salaries of the officers.
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, the Government was aware of the facts mentioned
 716
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  suggested that, as the Government would not probably proceed with Supply after 12 o'clock, the hon. and learned Gentleman should withdraw his Motion, and he could bring on his Bills after that hour.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he should vote for the Bill which had been supported on two occasions by the late Government. He had expected to hoar more argument in reply to the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick. All the statements made by the right hon. Baronet were applicable to the municipal franchise in England, and he feared the Government meant to raise it. The real argument was, that the Irish corporations might be influenced by political feelings; but it would be far better to state that we could not admit municipal government in Ireland than to attempt to restrict it to a particular class. He thought a strong case had been made out for a large reduction of the Irish municipal franchise, though the exact rate could be fixed in Committee.
 MR. W. O. GORE  hoped the hon. Baronet would not press his Motion. Hon. Members were justified in interrupting observations which he had made at least half a dozen times. Peculation was going on in France, and the French Audit Office was totally inadequate to detect that peculation. He hoped that whatever was done, our Audit Office would not be made like that of France.
 MR. WAIT  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If his attention has been directed to the stranding in the River Avon, on the 1st instant, of the screw steamer "Kron Prinz;" and, whether it is the intention of his department to institute an inquiry into the causes of such disaster?
 MR. PALMER  said, it was an undoubted fact that the seamen in our Mercantile Marine had seriously deteriorated of late years, and that great difficulty was experienced in obtaining a sufficient number of seamen for our
 752 753 Worcester Conway
 MR. BATES  said, they must all admit that the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey) had treated the sub-
 759 s s s
 MR. GOURLEY  said, he thought it was desirable the Government should nominate a Select Committee to consider the relations of the Mercantile Marine with the Navy The question had previously occupied the attention of the Government and of the country in consequence of the difficulty there was in obtaining good seamen to man our ships at the time of the Crimean War. Inquiry was then made both by a Royal Commission and by a Select Committee, and the Committee recommended the further consideration of the manner in which our Navy ought to be manned in times of emergency. From that time little attention had been paid to the actual necessities of the country in the event of our being engaged in another war of a similar character, and that, notwithstanding the relative positions of the Navy and Mercantile Marine were unsatisfactory to the Admiralty, to shipowners, and to seamen. For instance, in foreign ports, in case of emergency, the commander of a man-of-war could board merchant ships and remove men from them, thus jeopardizing the ships and inflicting injury on their owners. That was a matter on which shipowners would pronounce a very decided opinion in favour of an alteration of the law. If we were to utilize the immense force which existed we must endeavour to blend the two services into one harmonious whole in such a manner as to satisfy both shipowners and seamen. He questioned whether there were 700,000 available men in the Mercantile Marine; but he computed that there might be 500,000—a force quite sufficient to give the country the security it ought to possess. There must, however, be something radically wrong when there were only 13,000 men in a Reserve which ought to number at least 100,000 men. With regard to the drill for the Reserve, he thought there was too much of what might be called drawing-room drill. The Naval Reserve ought to be sent out, year by year, on board ships such as they would be engaged in if on actual service, and the men should be exercised as fighting men. When European States were organizing their land forces, England as the leading maritime Power in the world should be careful to organize
 758
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the word "Ireland" in the Bill was a misprint for "Scotland."
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  denied that he had said anything derogatory of the Auditor General or his clerks. He believed the Auditor General discharged his duty admirably, and that all the other officers did the same. But the Audit Office had not power enough. If it had, those scandals which had occurred would have been prevented. He had read the Papers to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, and he had come to the conclusion that, notwithstanding the zeal of the Auditor General and his officers, the Audit Office was perfectly insufficient and was a blot on the administration of the country. The right hon. Gentleman took the course which was usual with all officials—["Divide!"]—of praising things as they were—["Divide!"]—and endeavouring to prevent their improvement. Since the Committee would not listen to him, he should move that the Chairman report Progress.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he also was of opinion that unless the Audit Office was made thoroughly independent of the Treasury and vested with ample powers for the performance of its duties, every shilling that was voted for the office was thrown away. The tendency of modern legislation was to put everything under the Treasury, and the Treasury was an encroaching office, which ought to be strictly watched. No Act of Parliament was passed even on local matters which was not stereotyped with the words—"With the consent of the Lords of the Treasury." When people saw those words used in connection with any matter they naturally supposed the Lords of the Treasury had considered it; but the fact was, "with the consent of the Lords of the Treasury" meant with the consent of a clerk who was paid something between £100 and £150 a-year. Until the Audit Office was made independent of the Treasury, it would be perfectly useless. He would take every opportunity of bringing this matter before the House.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that six months ago the Audit Office was unable to get the clerks necessary for its work, owing to the obstruction and tyranny of the Lords of the Treasury. It had lost the power to do that which was necessary which was possessed by any auditor of a company.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether any information has reached Her Majesty's Government with reference to the reported telegram from Constantinople, in which it is stated—
 "That several Embassies have received advices from Alexandria that Mons. Lesseps has informed the Khedive that, being unable to work the Suez Canal under the conditions imposed by the Suez Canal Commission, he would dismiss the pilots, extinguish the lighthouses, and thus virtually close the Canal;"
 MR. CORRY  said, the people of Belfast did not want the Bill, as they were perfectly satisfied with the municipal franchise as it now stood.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he was glad to hear that the right hon. Gentleman would take into consideration the very valuable proposal which had been made by the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. T. Brassey). Although they would all desire to give credit to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen) for the fact that during the last 10 months the Royal Naval Reserve had increased by more than 2,000 men, they could not lose sight of the fact that the Navy during the last five years had diminished from 69,500 to 60,000, of whom nearly 3,000 were bluejackets. It was to be hoped that the 2,000 men who had joined the Reserve included many of those who had been discharged from the Navy. He should be glad to see the Education Department brought into closer contact with the Admiralty and the Board of Trade. If the Admiralty would establish training ships and employ officers at the different ports, and the Board of Trade encourage shipowners to employ the boys who had been trained, the ships themselves might be
 744
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he did not know the nature of the advances to which the hon. Gentleman referred. He, however, wished to point out that the Public Health Act, to which the question seemed to refer, and under which advances were made at a lower rate than that at which the Public Works Loan Commissioners could usually lend money, was confined to England, and therefore that it was not in the power of the Commissioners to make advances under that Act to local authorities in Ireland. It was intended, however, to introduce a corresponding Bill for Ireland, and the hon. Gentleman would then see what provisions were proposed on the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I named a day, of which I spoke yesterday, for reducing or abolishing the duties on raw and refined sugar respectively; but of course, without having had an opportunity of any communication with the gentlemen connected with the trade. I have to-day received a communication from the Chairman of the Sugar Refiners, and I have promised that I will consider the subject. I shall be prepared on Monday to give an answer, if the hon. Gentleman will repeat his Question.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the question to which my hon. Friend the Member for the Isle of Wight (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) has directed the attention of the House is one of great interest, and everybody must feel that the motives which induce him to bring it forward are of an excellent character. At the same time, it leads us into very extensive questions, because a proposal to provide pensions for the widows and families of all Civil Servants who may die in the service of the Crown is a proposal either very considerably to increase the remuneration which the Civil Servants now receive, or else it is a proposal to modify and alter the terms upon which they receive their remuneration. Of course, it is clear that if you give a man a certain salary, and attach to it a grant of a superannuation pension, you are doing something more for him than if you gave him a simple salary only as long as he is employed, and told him he must make provision for his own superannuation. Again, if you say "We will give a pension to your wife and family after your death "you are materially in-
 721 722 723 Post mortem 724
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  pointed out that Sir Robert Peel died before the year 1856.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  asked whether it was really necessary to take the Vote at that moment, because there was to be a Report from a Royal Commission from which great things were expected, while the present Vote led one to expect that little was to be done by that Commission. The impression existing on that subject might be very erroneous, but-still it was rife, the Vote being so much less than it was last year; and it would be more satisfactory to those interested in the question, if the Report of the Commission was laid on the Table before that Estimate was proceeded with. Supposing the Royal Commission recommended an increase of expenditure, would the Government take that recommendation into favourable consideration?
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he must complain of his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury substituting without Notice one class of Estimates for another. Had Class No. I. been brought forward instead of No. II. they might have had notice of the intention of the hon. Member who made this Motion; but that was not done. He was sure the Secretary to the Treasury would endeavour in future to give due notice of the Business to be brought on. As to the Amendment, the question was rather whether the salary of the Chairman in this House was sufficient than whether the other salary was excessive.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is able to name the clay on which he proposes to introduce the Government Bill for amending the Licensing Laws?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  in reply, said, as he understood the first part of the Question, it referred not so much to the grant of additional powers and duties to the police in burghs as to the extension of the powers and duties which they had within a burgh to pass to a county outside the burgh. That opened a much larger question. He thought from the representations which had been made, that it would be very easy to give them power as to the seaboard, but the question with reference to power inland was more serious, and was at present under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government. As to the part of the Question about establishing a superannuation fund, the subject of superannuation of the English police was at present under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government. The hon. Gentleman would remember that the Select Committee of the House of Lords in 1867 reported very strongly that any superannuation in Scotland should be paid by the public either by means of rates or out of a burgh fund. That matter required very serious consideration, and it was not his intention to introduce a measure on the subject. As to the third part of the Question, he found that opinion in Scotland was almost entirely in favour of cancelling the Order issued by the Home Office in December, 1873, and of returning to the former Order of the Home Office; and he was quite willing to cancel the Order made in December.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, his hon. and gallant Friend was correct in supposing that a medal was to be given to all officers, non-commissioned officers, and men who were sent out to Cape Coast Castle between the 13th of June, 1873, and the capture of Coomassie, and not beyond that. In the ease of the Crimean War the grant of a medal was limited to those who landed in the Crimea before the 9th of September, 1855, the day on which Sebastopol was taken. No medal was granted to any one afterwards, except he was engaged in a special service, which was specified in the Order, such as was instanced in the capture of Kinburn. The hon. and gallant Gentleman must excuse him (Mr. Hardy) if he declined to be bound by the matter of the Crimean medal, with which he had nothing to do, when considering the case of Ashantee.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the Return moved for by the hon.
 814
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : My hon. and gallant Friend is probably aware that the houses were bought and the plot of ground in Abingdon Street was cleared about eight years ago. The purchase was made chiefly to protect the Victoria Tower from the danger of fire. Before deciding upon any plan for levelling or laying out the; ground, it was necessary that the Embankment should be proceeded with, and a sum of £10,000 for that purpose appears in the Estimates. Tenders have been invited and sent in, and one has been recommended by me for the acceptance of the Treasury. The work will take about 14 months, and until it is nearer completion it appears unadvisable to give an opinion as to what should be done with the site.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, those officers who have been so gazetted have received temporary rank while serving in the Militia, in order to give them due authority over the soldiers. As, however, they are not in the Army, their widows are not entitled to pensions.
 MR. M. T. BASS  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is prepared on a convenient opportunity to introduce a measure to remedy the admitted defects of the Law of Imprisonment for debt?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that after the difference of opinion which had been expressed he could not adopt the phrase "admitted defects of the Law;" but if the hon. Member would suggest a remedy that was not on the lines on which his Bill was drawn, he would give the subject due consideration.
 MR. RYDER  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it is the intention of the Government to ask the House to vote such a sum of money for the Ordnance Survey on the 25-inch to the mile scale as will suffice to complete it without further delay, so as to provide a national Map of Reference for Land Registry?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, that there was in the Estimates of the year, an excess of £2,790 on the Vote for the Ordnance Surveys. He behoved that both his predecessors—Mr. Ayrton and the right hon. Member for Clackmannan (Mr. Adam)—had in different
 817
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : Sir, my attention has been called to the Bill which was brought in by the Midland Railway Company, and I have received a communication from the solicitor to the company. I am happy to say that the company have consented to strike out of the Bill the provision relating to the land on which the houses referred to by the hon. Baronet are built. Therefore, that part of the Bill will not be proceeded with at all this Session; and, if they bring in a Bill in the course of another Session, they undertake to ask for compulsory powers in the event of their wishing to have the land, so that they will be brought practically under the Standing Orders Committee of "another place."
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, the hon. Member is probably aware that the works connected with the Subway are being carried out by the Metropolitan District Railway. I was in hopes that the permanent subway would be ready by this time. I have ascertained, however, that some time will yet elapse before it is finished, and, feeling the great inconvenience to which hon. Members would be subject owing to this delay, I have requested that a letter may be written to the authorities of the Metropolitan District Railway urging them, until the larger work is completed, to re-open a temporary subway, which I am assured by the professional advisers of the Board of Works might be completed in a week.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, he must first apologize for his unavoidable absence from the House on Friday last. He wished to point out that, apparently, the hon. Member was under a misapprehension, as there were, in fact, no drives in Kensington Gardens. The only part which came under that category was the road between Queen's and Alexandra Gates, which was annexed to Kensington Gardens at the time of the building of the Memorial to the Prince Consort. Again, the part of the Park which was available for public conveyance was open from 5 A.M. till midnight, and the introduction of public conveyances to other parts of the Park could only be effected by a new rule, which, under the provision of the Parks Regulation Act, would have to be submitted for the approval of Parliament; and, having a lively recollection of the reception which that Act met with in its passage through the House, he had no intention of entering upon such debate-able ground.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : Mr. Speaker, I rise to call the attention of this honourable House to the present condition and management of Her Majesty's Dockyards; and I should wish, in the first place, to explain to the House my reasons for bringing forward this question at the present moment, when the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty is about to make his Report upon the Navy Estimates. I am fully aware that the House would be far more pleased to listen to his voice than to hear what I have to say. For that reason I should wish to put myself right with the House, and to explain to it the grounds on which I have risen before my right hon. Friend. In the first place, then, I not only speak for myself, but for a number of hon. Members on both sides of the House who are extremely desirous that their intentions should not be mistaken, and that any observations which may fall from myself or front them this evening might not be supposed to be a comment upon the Report of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord. Had we waited until we had heard his Statement, then such an opinion might have been formed of the observations which we are about to make. Another reason is, Sir, that I hold that this House is mainly responsible for the system which now prevails in Her Majesty's Dockyards; that that system is seriously defective, and dangerously impairs the material power of the British Navy; that it has not been
 820 personnel 821 "There is beneath, in the lower regions of the Department, the  ris inertiœ Hansard 822 The Times "Happily we have outlived at least one of our troubles in these matters. There is no longer any 'Dockyard mystery' to irritate economists and perplex the public. We no longer hear much even of Dockyard extravagance." 823 824 Megæra "The control and management of the Dockyards is inefficient. This inefficiency may be attributed to the following causes:—1st, the constitution of the Board of Admiralty; 2nd, the defective organization of the subordinate departments; 3rd, the want of clear and well-defined responsibility; 4th, the absence of any means, both now and in times past, of effectually checking expenditure, from the want of accurate accounts." 825 Captain Magara 826 matériel; personnel; 827 828
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : It was presented in 1859. There was more than one memorial addressed to the Committee on Dockyards from workmen at Portsmouth and other yards, all of them being equally strong. Here is one front Portsmouth. It states that labour being a marketable commodity those obtain the best description of work who pay the best price for it and hold forth a prospect of permanent employment, and that the Government by adding superannuation would obtain what is most desired by masters—namely, good, steady, and industrious workmen. I will not trouble the House further on this point as the Report of the Committee is in the hands of hon. Members; but I may observe that the memorials from these workmen show in every way why they consider it desirable for the benefit of the country at large that they should be placed on the establishment. Before I was asked the question to which I have now given an answer, I was remarking on the difficulty in which we might be placed in the event of war by the present system pursued at the Dockyards with regard to our unprepared state for war. If you look back to the Crimean War you will find that the Russian fleets were blockaded during the whole war, And
 829 Achilles Achilles; 830 831 832 "The captain hits been on shore for the last fortnight on account of his cabin being in such a defective state, all around it, there being nothing but dry rot." (The vessel is Her Majesty's ship  Niobe Plover
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : The 11th of January.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : This year; either in January or February, I cannot make out which. The writer goes on to say—
 "Our boilers were in such a bad state that our stoker actually put his fingers through while he was feeling for something the other day."
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : I believe she was. But if she was not, the case still shows that our stores were so defective that, for the first time in the history of the Navy, we built ships with bad timber. Now, Sir, I have dealt with the  matériel; personnel 833 s s 834 Fury Fury 835 Pelican
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : The information is contained in a Return asked for by the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) in 1867.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : If the right hon. Gentleman is inquisitive, he will find all the information contained in the correspondence. These vessels were often sold for a small sum, and the Government sometimes bought back the copper which was taken from them. There was one case in which we sold a vessel for £300, and then paid £1,500 for the copper upon her; and, as the late Controller is reported to have said, it would have been better to have burnt the vessel, and allowed the copper to fall out in the Dockyard. The breaking up of those ships is a valuable feature in the Dockyard. It occupies labour; it increases the number of men you have there at the outbreak of war; and it gives them the opportunity of making higher wages, because you can break up a ship by task and job work. It is work to which you can put your men at any time if you happen to have a slack week or so; and yet these vessels have been sold wholesale to the private trade in the manner which I have described. There is another point to which I wish to allude—the employment of the Reserves of our Elect when at home in working in the Dockyards, and in performing the work which ought to be done by Dockyard labourers. I have been told lately that this is not so, because these men are employed in the Steam Reserve, and that only ships whose repairs are completed are in the Steam Reserve. But every ship that is not actually at the time being in the hands of the Dockyard is in the Steam Reserve; and these men, while in the
 836 837 d d 838 Parliamentary Blue Book 839
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : I have seen them in his own handwriting.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : It was in a public-document.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT : I shall be happy to move for it.
 ADMIRAL SIR WILLIAM EDMON-STONE  said, he did not believe it was the intention of his hon. and gallant
 846
 CAPTAIN PRICE  said, that it had been contended that there was an advantage in getting ships of war built by private contract, because it accustomed private builders to that kind of work, and caused a great demand to spring up from foreign countries. Now it was the first time that he had heard that this was an advantageous course for this country. It was private firms being experienced in building war ships that got us into the  Alabama Ant Hyena Weasel 847
 MR. SCOURFIELD  thought that the statements they had listened to that evening went to show that those hon.
 896
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON , in moving that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee, said, he had hoped that
 897
 MR. GRANT DUFF  objected that the House of Commons was not the place for discussion of questions of private right which could be brought before the tribunals of the country. The question had already been decided against the annuitants by three eminent legal authorities—Lord Westbury, Lord Cranworth, and Lord Chelmsford. He believed that their claims were founded neither on law nor justice, and that what was true of the Courts of Law would be equally true of any person who entered into this question with a sense of responsibility.
 COLONEL HOGG , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, that no one would deny the importance of a measure which dealt with the regulation of the buildings of this vast metropolis, with the construction and management of its streets, the regulating the storing of inflammatory substances, with protection against fire, and with many other cognate matters. The object of the Bill was to extend and modify the enactments of an Act which was introduced by Lord Lincoln in 1855. It was the result of a long and careful consideration by the Metropolitan Board of Works, after consultation with numerous persons carrying on the various trades and manufactures affected by its provisions. Notwithstanding this the Board were fully aware that a Bill of this great magnitude, the details of which were of so complicated and technical a character, might be susceptible of improvement, and he was therefore prepared, as soon as it should be read a second time, to move that it be referred to a Select Committee, before which the parties who were specially affected by any of the provisions would be at liberty to be heard by counsel. The buildings of the metropolis were at present under the provisions of an Act passed in 1855 (the Metropolitan Building Act) and its subsequent Amendments; but it had been found in the working of that Act by the Board of Works that many anomalies had arisen under it. And he might here mention that it was exactly 100 years since this matter was first dealt with comprehensively by legislation—namely, in 1774. Since then the provisions of that Act had been amended and extended in accordance with the growing circumstances of the metropolis. In 1844 the Metropolitan Buildings Act was passed for the regulation and construction of buildings in the metropolis; and it repealed and re-enacted with many additions the Act of 1774; and again in 1855, as he had already mentioned, another Bill was introduced and passed by Lord Lincoln, altering to a great extent the Act of 1844. This Act was amended by further statutes in 1860
 1345 1346 1347
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE , on behalf of a very important body, the Royal Institute of British Architects, whom he might claim to represent in that House, there being no other member of the Society in it, said he was glad to be able to express satisfaction with a statement made by the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board. The Royal Institute represented all the architects in the Kingdom, and more particularly those resident in the metropolis. They had had for many years the useful and honourable function of examining gentlemen for the office of district surveyors, and thus, as it were, of licensing and approving them. In fact, the appointment so regulated was a sort of degree, and the gentlemen thus chosen carried with them the evidence of competency. He hoped that such power would not be taken away. The Bill, as it stood, proposed that the statutable rights of the Institute should be remitted to the uncertain provisions of a bye-law. If they were embodied in the Bill itself, the Institute would be satisfied. There were other provisions as to which the body which he represented had misgivings; but as he gathered from his hon. and gallant Friend that the Bill would be referred to a Select Committee, before which ample opportunity would be given for hearing and considering the various objections, he would not at this stage offer any opposition to the Bill. At the same time, he must point out that if the Bill had raised misgivings, its authors were responsible, from the unusual way in which they had drafted it. The old idea of a Bill was that it should appear in a form capable of at once receiving the Royal Assent. But this one began with a sort of preface of observations of an  ex parte
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he had himself given Notice of a Motion to refer the
 1349 1350
 COLONEL BERESFORD  said, he had hoped that the "harassing legislation," on which the late Chancellor of the Exchequer prided himself, had come to an end with the last Government; but it would be difficult to find a worse specimen of that legislation than was contained in the present Bill. If the "placard" clauses had been persevered with, he should certainly have opposed the Bill. He was glad his hon. and gallant Friend had, upon that point, "surrendered at discretion," and rendered it unnecessary for him to oppose the Bill. The effect of such a provision would be to throw a number of people out of employment.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, that the Bill, unless it were greatly modified by the Select Committee, would interfere seriously to the detriment of the trade and commerce of the metropolis. However, he understood that the hon. and gallant Gentleman was willing not only to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, but also to adopt the very terms of the Amendment which he put on the Paper to insure that the various parties affected should be represented by counsel before the Committee. [Colonel HOGG intimated assent.] That being so, he would not offer any opposition to the second reading; but he trusted the Home Secretary would make it his business to see that the sanitary condition of the Metropolis was not injuriously affected by the Bill, and that the Members who were to
 1351
 MR. WATNEY  said, that if it was necessary to legislate for the metropolis in the manner proposed by this Bill, he thought the same legislation would have to be applied to all the large towns of the country. He objected to the provision with respect to limitation of 300,000 cubic feet as the contents of any one "building," on the ground that had it been in operation before now, none of the large manufacturing or trading concerns of the metropolis could have been built. That might be easily understood, when it was considered that 300,000 was the cube of 67, and, therefore, to build a house 67 feet high, and 67 feet deep, would leave only 67 feet for frontage. He might be told there was a saving clause in the words, "unless the Board otherwise allow." But why should people have to go, cap in hand, to the Metropolitan Board for permission, as long as what they proposed to build was not detrimental to the public welfare? With regard to the provision for the erection of party walls and the other precautions against fire—looking back to the great fires that had occurred within the last few years, it had been, in his opinion, impossible to prevent some of them from spreading. Take, for instance, the great fire at London Bridge some years ago. He ventured to say that it was impossible for a considerable time to arrest the progress of that fire, fed, as it was, with oil and other inflammable matter. Then, as to fires in buildings supported by iron columns, it was found that those columns, under the action of the fire, gave way as supports, and aided by their great heat to communicate the fire to woodwork, and thus contributed to extend it. In his opinion, such results might be prevented by enclosing the iron columns in brickwork, which would effectually protect them from the action of the fire. Reference was made in the Bill by the hon. and gallant Member the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works to the great fire which occurred lately at the Pantechnicon. The destruction of that building would not have been prevented had this Bill been in force. In that building there were iron doors; but they were all left open, and they were thus of no use in arresting the progress of the flames, and preventing them from
 1352
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  said, he did not, intend to join in the chorus of objections to the Bill; he would rather congratulate the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Hogg) on having made an attempt to deal on an adequate scale with the Metropolitan Building Act of 1855, which was notorious for its defects—in particular it had allowed a great many houses to be built,
 1353
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that so far from complaining of the powers asked for by the Metropolitan Board, he only wished that greater powers than those contained in the Bill had been inserted, because until we had some centralization of authority in London, it would always be the worst governed metropolis in Europe. He thought that before introducing such a Bill us this, they ought to know distinctly what the present state of things was. What were the powers of the district surveyors? The condition of the district lying between the Knights-bridge Barracks and Hyde Park Corner was perfectly disgraceful from accumulations of dirt and the effluvia from drains, which had the effect of producing fever, and of reducing the value of property in the neighbourhood. The district surveyor, it appeared, had nothing to do with the matter, and therefore he should like to know what were the powers entrusted to those surveyors. At the same time he considered the Bill was a step in the right direction.
 ALDERMAN SIR JAMES LAWRENCE  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Chairman of the Board had stated that the Bill did not interfere with the traders and manufacturers of the metro-
 1354
 MR. STEVENSON  complained that the Bill went into matters of detail which must seriously hamper architects and builders, without securing any corresponding advantage. He objected to the limitations as to shop fronts, projecting windows, and balconies; for he much wished to see our architects do something to break the dull monotony of the London Streets. Then, as to the width of streets, it was a matter which
 1355
 MR. KINNAIRD  hoped the Select Committee would not meet before Whitsuntide, so that there might be ample time for district surveyors and others to examine the Bill. He trusted the work of the Select Committee would prepare the way for a comprehensive measure of local government for the metropolis, which he hoped the Ministry would introduce next Session.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the local government of the metropolis was no doubt a large and serious question, and one which must be entertained at some time; but certainly not at present. This Bill was important in two ways—as affecting the public interest and as affecting trades and industries—it was important that the Regulations proposed by the Board of Works should be made as effective as possible in the interests of the public; and it was important that the interests connected with trade and commerce should have their case amply considered—and it would be the desire of Parliament to get out of any legislation the maximum of public benefit with the minimum of inconvenience and disturbance to private interests. He would not enter into any of the details referred to by hon. Members in the course of this discussion—except to make one observation on the question of fire. The object of some of the provisions of the Bill was to diminish the frequency and, perhaps, also the extent of fires; but he could not help saying he hoped that at some time provision would be made for a more plentiful supply of water to the metropolis. The existing regulations were lamentably inefficient, and before long the matter must attract the serious attention of Parliament. As to the important clause providing for the appointment of a special police magistrate to deal with the questions that would arise under the operation of the Bill, he was inclined to think that justice was better administered by a magistrate dealing
 1356
 MR. GOSCHEN  thought the proposals of the right hon. Gentleman were fair, and would give satisfaction to those whose interests were affected. He must also express his satisfaction at the withdrawal of the clauses relating to advertisements, which had caused great-consternation. It would have been a bad return for the great obligations hon. Members were under to the bill-stickers to have harassed that useful interest at present.
 COLONEL HOGG  said, the Bill had been in the hands of hon. Members 29 days; and, if a fortnight were allowed before the Select Committee met, he hoped there would be no further delay. He had brought it in with an earnest desire to pass it this Session. He had no reason to complain of the manner in which the Bill had been received. The district surveyors had to do with buildings only, and therefore had nothing to do with the condition of the sewers in Belgravia, complained of by the hon. Member for the Isle of Wight, about which complaint should be made to the Inspector of Nuisances of the vestry. The City was represented at the Metropolitan Board by three members, one an architect, who had taken much interest in this Bill; and, therefore the City could not plead surprise. Streets of 40 feet width were as narrow as could be sanctioned for public traffic. The hon. Baronet the Member for Lambeth (Alderman Sir James Lawrence) complained that the trades of London had not been consulted; but the fact was a variety of trades had been requested by the Board several years ago to state their objections to the Bill in detail. They had been heard  vivá voce
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I must apologize to the House for rising so early in the debate and interposing between the hon. and gallant Gentleman 'Colonel Alexander), who has given Notice of an Amendment; but as I am obliged to leave the House on other business, I think it only right that the House should know what the views of the Government are before I am called away. I may state at the outset that no one feels more than I do the great attention which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. M'Lagan) has given to this important subject. He was a Member of the Select Committee which inquired into this subject last year, and no one on that Committee took a more active and useful part. It was essential that the Committee should obtain full information as to the law of Scotland on this subject, in order that it might be considered in relation, not to the case of England alone, but in relation to the whole United Kingdom. I must, however, state that the Government feel compelled to oppose the measure he has brought in, and for the reasons which I will now give. In the first place this question of the game laws affects the whole of the United Kingdom, and not Scotland alone; whereas the provisions of this Bill are restricted to Scotland
 1368 1369 1370
 MR. BROMLEY DAVENPORT  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Dillwyn) was in favour of taking the jurisdiction away from the justices of the peace; but he had omitted to say to whom he proposed to give it. Or, did he intend to make poaching no crime at all? It had been remarked that the entire difficulty rested with the ground game. Now, he lived
 1390
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in opposing the Amendment, wished to remind the House that what his hon. Friend was asking the House to do was to refer to a Select Committee claims which had been rejected by every tribunal before whom they had been brought. The transfer of the funds had been rendered necessary by certain alterations that had taken place, at the suggestion of the Covenanted Civil Servants themselves. He was sorry that hon. Members were not satisfied with the Bill, especially when it was remembered that words were about to be introduced in it, making the Secretary of State liable for any claim that might be established. Lord Salisbury had also directed him to state that all the documents at the India Office bearing on the subject might be inspected at any time by persons interested, and that no advantage would be taken of the Statute of Limitations in resisting claims that might be advanced.
 MR. PELL  said, he should vote in favour of the Bill, because he considered it to be a moderate measure. There were one or two other reasons which induced him to give it his support; first, it did not interfere with the law of contract in the way other Bills that had been introduced proposed to do; next, it was directly against preservation of rabbits under the game laws, and he was in favour of that. It did not meet the entire case, and no doubt it was a very difficult thing to deal properly with that inconvenient little animal. He was glad, however, that his hon. Friend had made the attempt; and if there were defects in the Bill, they could be remedied in Committee. He believed, many of the complaints they heard arose from want of knowledge as to the law of trespass. It had been suggested, that if hares and rabbits were taken out of the game-list, the farmer could be protected by the passing of a more severe trespass Act. He was inclined to believe neither the English, Scotch, nor Irish people would be satisfied with such a change. The only proper remedy they could have against trespass, was to kill the animal down to such an extent as to do away with the inducement to professional poachers to go in pursuit of him. There were other Bills to which he might be permitted to refer. There was the Bill of the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. P. A. Taylor). That hon. Gentleman sat on the other side of the House, and he might say the Radical had no better friend in the world than the rabbit. So long as that little animal could be sprung like a mine upon them when they went to visit their constituents, so long would he be the friend of those who, without seeing their way clearly to deal with the question, might find him very useful in defeating a Tory candidate. In his county there was a division of opinion as to what should be done with the obnoxious little animal. For his own part, he disliked him on the
 1388
 MR. NAGHTEN  asked the Secretary of State for War, If, inasmuch as Adjutants of Militia have been gazetted to the rank of Captains in the Army, their widows are entitled to pensions?
 MR. NAGHTEN  thereupon gave Notice that he would, on an early day, call the attention of the House to the position of Adjutants of Militia, and move a Resolution on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise to move that a Supply be granted to Her Majesty in order that Her Majesty may be enabled to carry into effect that object she has graciously expressed to her faithful Commons, to confer some mark of distinction on Sir Garnet Wolseley for having so successfully planned and conducted the Ashantee War. It is unnecessary, and I think the Committee will agree with me that it would be hardly becoming, that I should enter into the reasons which have induced Her Majesty's Government to advise that the recognition of the merits and services of Sir Garnet Wolseley should take the form of the Vote now before the Committee. It is enough for me to state that it takes that form merely in consideration of the feelings and wishes of the eminent individual whom it is the wish of the Sovereign of the country to honour and to reward. I would take this opportunity to announce that Her Majesty had graciously wished to confer upon Sir Garnet Wolseley an hereditary distinction, and to recommend to the House to provide the becoming means to maintain such an honour. Sir Garnet Wolseley, however, in declining it, said that the only rewards he sought in life were connected with that profession in which all his feelings and thoughts were centred, and that he looked with hope and anxiety always to professional promotion and professional opportunity. I may here observe that Sir Garnet Wolseley is a member of a family in which there are two Baronetcies, one of which is ancient, to both of which it is possible he may succeed. He has never cared to look forward to the possession of those Baronetcies, which if he were to succeed to them might interfere with the career to which he is devoted, but certainly he has no wish to add to the honours of that kind which his family already possesses. I thought it my duty to suggest to Sir Garnet Wolseley that however much I might admire the modesty of his charac-
 849 "That a sum not exceeding £25,000 be granted to Her Majesty to be issued to Major General Sir Garnet. J. Wolseley, K.C.B., (G.C.M.G., as an acknowledgment of his eminent services in planning and conducting the recent Expedition to Ashantee."
 COLONEL ALEXANDER : We have been told, Sir, on high authority, no less than that of the hon. and learned Member for Denbighshire (Mr. Osborne Morgan), that speeches in this House are frequently intended for others than those who actually listen to them, and without entirely subscribing to that doctrine, I may say there are circumstances which will not allow me to give a silent vote on this occasion, and which compel me to state the course which I feel it my duty to pursue in connection with the second reading of this Bill. For, Sir, inexperienced as I am in the forms and procedure of this House, I cannot conceal from myself, and I think many hon. Members will acknowledge the substantial accuracy of my assertion, that a practice is beginning to obtain—a practice, I venture to think, by no means to be commended—of voting for the second reading of a Bill, not because its principle is approved, but—and I do not say this in any offensive sense—in order to save appearances and to avoid the imputation of hostility to reforms which the Bill may attempt, though indeed vainly, to promote. In short, Sir, to adopt the expressive language of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government on another occasion, hon. Members, and especially Scotch hon. Members, are "very nervous" on the game question. I myself own to some degree of trepidation, for when I was canvassing the constituency which I have the honour to represent—not at the last, but at the penultimate General Election—a rabbit, I think, was brought in on a pole, and some attempt was made to establish a mysterious connection between that interesting animal and the right hon. Gentleman the present First Minister of the Crown. But, Sir, I cannot admit the claim of hon. Gentlemen opposite to a monopoly in this question: it is not a party question, and, moreover, ought never to be made a party question. Hon. Gentlemen sitting on these benches are quite as much interested as hon. Gentlemen opposite
 1371 "These can be no question that the existence of a large number of haves and rabbits upon an arable form is most prejudicial to its profitable occupation, and your Committee cannot too Strongly reprobate the practice of some landlords and their shooting tenants of keeping up a large stock of those animals on cultivated lands, to the injury of the crops of the farming tenants." 1372 1373 1374 "Letting I dare not, wait upon I would," 1375 "Mearum Grande decus columenque rerum." "Among the faithless, faithful only they." 1376
 MR. GREENE  said, he thought the Scotch Members were perfectly capable of taking care of Scotland, but there were such things as epidemics, and if the principles of this Bill were adopted in Scotland, they might hereafter be proposed for England; and to that he objected. This Bill would allow men to go on other people's land and take hares and rabbits, and there was to be no punishment whatever. He did no; object to their excluding hares and rab-
 1391
 MR. E. J. REED  said, it was very desirable that, before the House went into Committee of Supply, some remarks should be made upon the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Chatham (Admiral Elliot)—a most unfortunate speech for our Dockyards. He had laid down propositions which were not essential to the well-being of the Dockyards, and, at the same time, would be very injurious to the country. He had protested against the policy of Government Business being done by the private trade of the country, but a more questionable doctrine was never propounded to the House, for everybody who had thoroughly considered the subject must be aware that it was one of the most fortunate things that had ever happened to the shipbuilding industry of this country that a considerable part of the shipbuilding ordered by the Government had been given to private firms. The hon. and gallant Member had argued that the Government Dockyards ought to be the only establishments in this country which should be allowed to build iron-clad ships. Why, it was the competition of the private yards which had rendered this country the principal resort of the world for the production of iron-clad vessels. Indeed, considering the enormous stimulus which the shipbuilding trade had given to the iron and coal interests of the country, he wondered that anyone should declaim in that House against the system of constructing some Government ships in private dockyards. No doubt the system required regulation, and of late he had noticed a tendency to place ships at low prices in the hands of inexperienced persons to an extent which was not altogether prudent. Still, he hoped we should never see the Government Dockyards converted into close establishments in which alone iron-clad ships could be built. As for the persistent efforts of different Ministries to disestablish all the
 841 Captain 842
 MR. E. J. REED  said, that if they had not heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty (Mr. Hunt) that evening, they would nevertheless have known perfectly well that for several years past the expenditure of the Government upon now iron-clad ships had been undergoing a very rapid diminution. In fact, close
 872 873 874 The Times 875 Inflexible 876 Inflexible Thunderer Devastation Thunderer Thunderer Inflexible Fury Thunderer Superb
 MR. E. J. REED  said, he was glad to receive that explanation from the right hon. Gentleman, because the less he
 877 878
 MR. E. J. REED  said, his complaint was that, in addition to the 200 tons on the turrets, there were 500 tons on the hull not to be completed.
 MR. E. J. REED  said, the assertion that Sir Spencer Robinson desired to abolish the Dockyards was in direct contradiction to all he knew of that gallant officer, and he (Mr. Reed) had enjoyed a long and intimate connection with him. It might, perhaps, be supposed from the tenor of his remarks that he was wholly opposed to the hon. and gallant Member who brought forward this Motion, whereas, in truth, he was opposed only to the spirit of the speech, and to the general statements which had been imported into it. In his opinion, the officers and men in our Dockyards were labouring under considerable disadvantages, but the general statements of the hon. and gallant officer were calculated to prejudice their case, especially on the Opposition side of the House, where some economists still survived. The hon. and gallant Gentleman attacked the hired men, but the question of the admixture of hired and established artizans in the Dockyards was a very serious one, and one in which a Minister might easily go wrong. Unlike the hon. and gallant Member, he was fully prepared to maintain that the hired men had behaved well, and were a thoroughly valuable and reliable body. It was said they were union men, but it was a very prudent thing that they were so, because workmen were as entitled as themselves to look after their legitimate interests. Besides, the hired men, being members of trade societies, were in good relations with working men in other parts of the
 843
 MR. E. J. REED : Then I hope the hon. and gallant Officer will, when we are in Committee on the Estimates, give us the date and the occasion of that document.
 MR. E. J. REED : If the handwriting was not in a public document I think it is unfortunate that it should have been produced here.
 MR. G. BENTINCK  could not but think that both the House and the country were indebted to his hon. and gallant Friend (Admiral Elliot) for the very able way in which he had brought forward the subject. Never was there an attack more undeserved than that of the hon. Member for Beading (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) upon his hon. and gallant Friend, for he had almost impugned the motives, and certainly had impugned the qualifications of his hon. and gallant Friend to deal with it; but he was quite sure the House would not endorse that opinion. A more clear, able, and conclusive statement he had never heard; it was so complete that it appeared to be incapable of contradiction. His hon. and gallant Friend had shown that the present condition of the Dockyards was dangerous to the best interests of the country, because, in fact, the country was not prepared for war; and that it would be impossible to put it into that necessary condition, if it should become necessary, within a reasonable time. It was no doubt quite natural that the Government should ask for time for consideration; but he trusted that in considering the matter they would be as brief as possible, and would be to some extent guided by what they had heard that day. The case of the Pembroke Dockyard showed that the practice which had been pursued of late years, was a system which was crippling our resources. He believed that the present state of things had been brought about by the wretched system of Government after Government competing with one another for what was called economy, but which, when tested practically, amounted to nothing but extravagance. He did not understand the hon. and gallant Member who brought forward the matter, to attack private building yards; but he must say that the practice of so many hired men being employed in the Dockyards was properly attributed as a fault to the Government.
 MR. GOSCHEN : What ships are these?
 MR. GOSCHEN : Will you say how many are in each category?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the ship was practically completed, except as to the turrets; and the 500 tons was equivalent to so much more money to be spent for men and material. That led him (Mr. Goschen) to the comparatively small amount of iron-clad ships that had been built during the last two or three years. The delay had not been an unmixed evil. The late Board of Admiralty were desirous of avoiding the building of iron-clads which in a few months might be pronounced out of date. The result of the delay had been that they received most important suggestions as to modifications of the design for the  Inflexible 893 Devastation Sultan Audacious Monarch Devastation 894 895
 MR. GOSCHEN  asked when the debate would be resumed?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he anticipated receiving the sympathy of both sides of the House on this account—that three elaborate speeches having been made against the Estimates for which he was more or less responsible, he laboured under the disadvantage of having to reply to those speeches on the spur of the moment, and of being required to remember the innumerable charges which had been made, while in such a case the attack had a great advantage over the defence in the careful preparation of all statements that were to be advanced. Under these circumstances, he hoped the Committee would not be dissatisfied if he made out that the case was not so black as it had been painted. He thought that even the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty would not be sorry if the effect of the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Hay) was somewhat mitigated, preceded, as it was, by the far more cautious, but also far more important, statement of the First Lord. One circumstance he greatly regretted, and that was that the speech of the First Lord was not made before the delivery of the Budget by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But five days ago, when the surplus was settled, a very delicate and slight allusion was made to the possibility of Supplementary Estimates which might be called for by unforeseen circumstances, and it was said that the Estimates submitted by the Government might be taken to be substantially those of their predecessors. He could not understand the discrepancy now revealed: but he was glad of one thing, and that was that this debate had occurred before the proposals of the Chancellor of the
 886 887 888 889 Warrior Defence Resistance Peter the Great Peter the Great Devastation Peter the Great 890 Eclipse Sirius Nymph Juno 891 Téméraire Thunderer 892 Thunderer Thunderer Thunderer Thunderer Thunderer Fury Devastation
 MR. GOSCHEN : In 1867?
 MR. GOSCHEN : Was she ä contract-built ship?
 MR. GOSCHEN : This year?
 MR. GOSCHEN : What date is that letter?
 MR. HUNT  said, he would accept the proposal of his right hon. and gallant Friend with regard to those Votes.
 MR. HUNT  said, he must congratulate the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Chatham (Admiral Elliot) on the very able manner in which he had enforced his views, and begged to assure him that the different matters on which he had spoken would receive his most careful attention. But his hon. and gallant Friend must be well aware that it was too early in his (Mr. Hunt's) official life as yet for him to have made up his mind on the different matters which he had discussed. The question what part of the shipbuilding of the Navy should take place in the Dockyards, and what part should be performed by private contract, was one on which there were great differences of opinion. The question, also, as to what should be the proportions of hired men and established men was one which would require very careful examination. The other matters also to which his hon. and gallant Friend had alluded required attentive consideration. He had only been able up to the present time to make a very cursory inspection of two Dockyards, and as soon as the Session was over he would devote a very considerable time to Dockyard questions, especially to those which had been brought before the House. He was very glad that his hon. and gallant Friend was satisfied to leave the matter as it stood without moving for a Committee, because, as his hon. and gallant Friend had himself said, no Committee could complete their task in the course of what was left of this Session; and suppose any changes were found necessary by his (Mr. Hunt's) Colleagues and himself in the course of their investigation nest autumn, it would be impossible
 840
 MR. HUNT : I am not able to say at present; probably not for a week.
 MR. HUNT : Three will be reach-next year, and 2, when out of hand, will be fit for one year—the sanguine say for a longer time, but the best authorities say but one year can be reckoned upon. Then there are 4 ships whose boilers are nearly worn out, and which will require thorough repair. Such is the account I have to give of the sea-going iron-clads according to the best information I can acquire. Then of the 14 which are adapted for harbour and coast defence only 9 can be considered effective, of which number 8 are complete and 1 is being built; and of the 8 the  Devastation 867
 MR. HUNT : Well, I did not prepare the paper before me; but I am quite prepared to take the fact to be as my right hon. Friend states. In 1868–9, the Vote amounted to £11,157,290; but a correction of about £200,000 should be made in consequence of a different mode of keeping the accounts then and now; so that the sum voted really was nearly £11,000,000, the highest amount reached during the period to which I am calling attention, and that was the last year for which my late right hon. Friend (Mr. Corry) was responsible. It has been stated that the Estimates of my late right hon. Friend for the year were what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich would call "transitional Estimates." It has, been admitted from that bench that if my late right hon. Friend had remained in office the Estimates would have fallen by about £600,000, as the reduction did not depend upon any change of policy. I now come to the reductions which were made under the late Administration. These reductions were, I suppose, the work of political necessity, but I do not wish to go into controversial matters. I have stated facts to the Committee, and I hope in a
 868 869 Minotaur 870 hiatus valde deflendus 871
 MR. HUNT  said, the hon. Member had misapprehended him. He had stated that he was determined to have an efficient Navy, and for that purpose, after consultation with his Colleagues, he trusted to be enabled to propose some additional Estimates. In the meantime, he contented himself with moving the Estimates of his predecessor in office.
 MR. HUNT : I decline to specify them more particularly; but there are nine of the description I have stated.
 MR. HUNT : Yes; the paper I have made out will distinguish between the cost of the hull and the cost of the machinery. I will, if practicable, have the cost of boilers added, and put into a separate column. A question which here arises, to which I will advert by-and-bye, is whether, in consequence of this state of affairs, the number of men taken for our Dockyards—namely, 14,300, will be sufficient to keep up the present establishment of ships. The work done in the Dockyards generally falls short of the estimate. The tonnage proposed to be built in the Dockyards in 1873–4 amounted, in the whole, to 12,757 tons: but of that only 10,902 were actually built. I believe that year will not be found to be an exceptional one, because, if the account is analyzed, it will be found that for some years past that has been the normal state of things; and it applies not only to Dockyards but also to the work done by private contract. As regards the distribution of the shipbuilding work, it was proposed to build 8,105 tons of iron-clads. The amount actually built last year was only 5,592 tons. In frigates and corvettes it was proposed to build 3,138 tons; but there was built more than the estimate—namely, 3,605 tons. Of sloops and gun boats, it was proposed to build 770 tons, but nearly double that quantity was built—namely, 1,395 tons. Of other vessels, it was proposed to build 444 tons, but there was actually built 310 tons only. I am not aware of the reasons, but the result is this, that whereas this House was under the impression that 8,000 tons would be added during the year to our iron-clads, it fell short of that to the amount I have named,
 858 Minotaur 859 860 861 Superb Téméraire Euryalus Magicienne Albatross Rover Sappho Daring Diamond Fantóme Pioneer 862 Inflexible Shah; Boadicea Bacchante Thunderer; Osborne Osborne Vesuvius Assistance Sapphire Perseverance; Fantóme Egeria; Cygnet, Contest Express Arab Lily Fury Devastation Shannon Magicienne Dover Magicienne Magiciennes Sappho, Daring, Arab, Lily, Cygnet, Express Contest; Fantôme 863 Cygnets Resistance Pioneer Glatlon Gorgon Devastation Audacious Captain Invincible Vanguard Iron Duke Sultan 864 Hotspur Swiftsure Glatton Triumph Repulse Repulse Cyclops, Hecate, Gorgon, Hydra, Devastation Rupert Thunderer Superb, Fury, Shannon, Téméraire Inflexible; Téméraire Inflexible 865 Devastation; 866
 MR. HUNT , in moving the Vote for £602,757, for Wages, &c., for Seamen and Marines, said: Sir, I feel that I need the indulgence of the Committee in endeavouring to perform the task assigned to me on this occasion—because not only is the time since I undertook the duties of my present office exceedingly short, but the work of the Department is entirely new to me. Under these circumstances, I feel conscious that I shall not be able to give the assistance to the Committee in explaining the Estimates that I could have done if the time afforded to me had been longer; and therefore I hope the Committee will bear with me in any shortcomings I may exhibit. 850 851 personnel matériél personnel 852 853 Minotaur Achilles Minotaur 854 855 Dryad Dryad's Eclipse; Eclipse 856 Warrior Warrior Defence Resistance Hector Minotaur Achilles Black Prince Valiant 857
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he was not surprised at the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Chatham (Admiral Elliot), as during the late Election, that hon. Member had carried messages from one Dockyard to another, and had thereby raised expectations which he must do something to meet. The House would, therefore, do well to entertain, with great care, any statements coming from interested parties. There was a time when the Dockyards were managed with reference to politics, and when the Members for Dockyard towns were considered Government Members; but the Duke of Somerset was the first to lay it down, that the Dockyards should be managed without any regard to political considerations, and that course had been followed by right hon. Gentlemen opposite when before in office, and also by the late Government. He (Mr. Shaw-Lefevre) was sorry that the system appeared about to be revived again. He should have been glad to have acceded to the request of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hunt) to go into Committee at once, were it not that there were some observations which he wished to make upon what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham. When his right hon. Friend (Mr. Goschen) undertook last year to raise the wages of Dockyard men, he did it in such a way that it should not become a subject of discussion in that House, and that capital could not be made out of it by Members for the Dockyard towns. The main subject upon which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had addressed the House was what he called "the disestablishment" of the Dockyard men, and he gathered from his rather discursive speech, that
 844 845 Pelican
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE : When was the  Pelican
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE : What is the date of the memorial to which you now refer?
 MR. CHILDERS : There was an excess Vote of £340,000.
 MR. J. W. BARCLAY  said, he had considered very carefully and very anxiously, and he hoped impartially, the Bill which had been introduced by the hon. Member for Linlithgowshire (Mr. M'Lagan), and after giving it his fullest consideration, and speaking, as he did and was naturally expected to do, to a considerable extent for the farmers of Scotland, he said on their behalf that he did not think the Bill very much improved the existing state of matters. Yet he should give it his support, chiefly as a protest against the existing system of game laws, and in order that there should be no appearance of conflict between private Members who were trying to force the Government to deal with that question. What, then, were the grievances alleged against the game laws, and how was it proposed to remedy them? The first class of objections regarded the penalties and the mode in which the laws were administered. It was urged against the existing system that it was defective, and that the penalties were altogether out of proportion to the offences committed; that they were oppressive, inasmuch as a man for the same offence might be convicted several times; and that they were unconstitutional, because in a recent Act of Parliament authority was given to a policeman to stop and search people on the public highway simply on suspicion. And further there was this anomaly—that under these laws, and also under the fishery laws, offenders might be convicted upon the testimony of a single witness. As to the objection that the administration of the law was unsatisfactory, he was very glad to point out an improvement in that respect in this Bill—the Bill proposed to transfer the administration from the Justices of the Peace to the Sheriffs. This was a very decided improvement; and as he understood that the practice of convicting offenders on the testimony of one
 1378 1379 1380 1381
 MR. GRIEVE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will consent to the abolition of Duty on Refined Sugar taking effect on the 10th of June instead of on the 21st of May next?
 MR. GRIEVE  asked the First Commissioner of Works, When he will be prepared to re-open the subway to the Metropolitan District Railway Station?
 MR. GRIEVE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he contemplates introducing any measure this Session to confer additional powers or duties on the Police Force in Burghs in Scotland; whether it is contemplated to establish a superannuation fund in
 812
 MR. MAITLAND  said, that being in some measure responsible for this Bill, and also as representing an important county (Kirkcudbrightshire) in Scotland, in which there existed considerable feeling on this subject, he desired to be permitted to say a few words. The reason he supported this Bill lay in its extreme moderation. He fully admitted there were considerable imperfections in it; but he thought that from its very moderation, the measure was calculated to produce a great amount of satisfaction in Scotland. He was aware that neither of the extreme parties would be perfectly satisfied with it. The thoroughgoing game preservers would dislike any alteration of the law in this direction; and on the other hand, the uncompromising enemies of the game laws would of course consider this a very inadequate measure of reform. But he believed that the farmers and general public of Scotland would derive advantage from the Bill. He wished to call attention to the great difference of opinion that existed among hon. Gentlemen opposite who opposed the Bill. On the one hand the Home Secretary opposed the Bill; but did he propose to do anything himself? Why, he proposed to do absolutely nothing—he did not even say he was thinking of preparing a measure. But what did the Conservative Members from Scotland—his followers—say? Why, the hon. and gallant Gentleman who moved the Amendment objected to the Bill because it merely touched the fringe of a great subject. Now, he confessed that he did not wish any such tremendous measure as that suggested by the hon. and gallant Gentleman; nor did he believe the farmers and people of Scotland considered any very revolutionary measure necessary. There were, however, two other Bills dealing with the game question before the House. There was the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. P. A.
 1386
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he should vote for the second reading of the Bill, because it contained two principles of which he approved. In the first place, there was the principle that hares and rabbits were to be exempted from the general category of game, subject to certain conditions as to trespass, which would, no doubt, have to be altered. The other principle was that the jurisdiction should be altered, and taken from the justices of the peace. If these principles were adopted for Scotland, and were found to work, they would soon be adopted in England; and if they did work well, he believed they would go far to settle the game question in this country.
 MR. DILLWYN , in referring to the Vote for the Office of the Auditor General, called attention to an instance he had discovered in the Appropriation Accounts in which the correctness of an account had not been certified by that officer, asked whether it was the habit of the Treasury to pay the money in such cases?
 MR. MARK STEWART : Sir, I have to ask the indulgence of the House while I address them for the first time. I thank the hon. Member for Linlithgowshire (Mr. M'Lagan) for the very calm and careful statement he made respecting this Bill. He did not say anything which ought to be concealed, and he gave the House the full meaning of all the clauses which he touched upon. But I must say there is an opinion prevalent in this House—at least, on this side—unfavourable to touching these game laws. I am not only interested in land as a proprietor, but I am one of the largest tenant farmers in the House. I can therefore sympathize with the grievances of the tenants as well as any one sitting on the other side of the House. This Bill, no doubt, cannot be considered as a perfect one. It is a somewhat lame attempt to heal what is termed a great grievance, but it does not do it thoroughly. Nevertheless, had I received any communications in favour of the Bill, I should have voted in favour of it; but all the letters which I have received—and I have received letters from many different persons in the country possessing great influence, and who have acquired great experience in this and kindred questions—and one and all of these persons tell me that although opposed to me in polities, they consider this Bill would not give the satisfaction which the hon. Member expects it would. Therefore it is a bad Bill. It is most desirable that this House should view this question from a Scotch point of view, and I should like to state to the House the reasons which influence Scotland generally in taking so very strong a view as regards the game question. It must not be forgotten—what has been alluded to to-day—that one of the great
 1382 1383 1384 1385
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, it was not his intention to bring forward any measure that Session, but he was quite aware of the importance of the Question, and of the desire very widely felt for an amendment of the present law, and he hoped to be able to give such consideration to the subject during the autumn as would enable him to introduce a Bill on it next Session.
 MR. M'LAGAN , in reply, said, the Home Secretary had stated this Bill would give satisfaction to no one, but he begged to remind him that it was a Bill of compromises, and he asked the House to support it as such, because that was its merit. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had further stated that it would not settle the question. Well, if the Government were prepared to bring in a Bill which would settle the question, he should be very much surprised, because he believed no Bill proposing anything short of the actual abolition of the game laws would be satisfactory to the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. P. A. Taylor).
 MR. M'LAGAN , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said: Mr. Speaker,—An apology is scarcely necessary from me for having introduced so early in
 1358 1359 1360 1361 1362 1363 s s 1364 1365 1366 1367
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that the rabbit was the best friend the Radical ever had. If it had not been for the excessive preservation of ground game they would never have had the question brought before the House. Only those who had fully investigated the question, like those who had been Members of the Special Committee, could know the prejudicial effects of this over-preserving of ground game; and this, not on the food of the people only, but on their social condition. Though he did not agree with all the provisions of the Bill before the House he would vote for it as a protest against nothing being done. He did not agree, however, with the hon. Members who thought the Bill should apply only to Scotland—ho thought it should be for the whole British Kingdom. He hoped a satisfactory measure would be brought forward by the Government so as to settle this troublesome question.
 MR. MUNTZ : Will the Report give the distinction between the repairs of the boilers and the general repairs of the iron-clads?
 MR. HANBURY  said, he would withdraw his Resolution on this subject, on the understanding that he would be able to bring it forward on Monday-next as a substantive Motion.
 MR. LAING  considered that nothing could be clearer than that the claim put forward was a just one, and he believed that a Select Committee was the best tribunal before whom to bring a question of this sort, turning, not upon dry technicalities of law, but on considerations of policy and broad equity. For that reason he should support the Amendment.
 MR. THOMPSON  asked the First Commissioner of Works, If he will open the drives in Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens to public conveyances between the hours of 7 and 9 P.M. during the summer months?
 MR. FORSYTH  denied that there was any contract with these gentlemen entitling them to the excess beyond the half value of their annuity.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether
 816
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whethere is included in the Estimates any sum for the purpose of levelling or placing in a less unsightly condition the plot of land in Abingdon-street, abutting on the south side of the Victoria Tower, which has so long been loft in a neglected state; or if any plan has been determined upon for utilising the same?
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he intended to vote for the Bill, not because he approved of all its details, but to show that the people of Scotland desired an alteration of the game laws. The hon. and, gallant Member (Colonel Alexander) had referred to the neglect of Scotland by the last Government. He joined with him in saying that the late Government was exceedingly neglectful of Scotland, and
 1387
 MR. ERRINGTON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Government intend bringing in any measure this Session to reform the Irish Grand Jury system?
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the House, that he had received from Mr. Justice Mellor, one of the Judges selected for the Trial of Election Petitions, pursuant to the Parliamentary Elections Act, 1868, a Report relating to the Election for the Borough of Stockport. And the same was read, to the effect following:—
 "I beg to report that the summons for leave to withdraw the said Petition came on to be heard before me this day, and that no person claiming to be intitled having applied for leave to be substituted for the Petitioners, and I being satisfied that the withdrawal of such Petition was not the result of any corrupt arrangement or in consideration of the withdrawal of any other Petition made an order for the withdrawal of the same."
 SIR JOHN HAY , who had a Motion on the Paper relating to the Order for going into Committee of Supply directed against the expenditure of money on the building of Armoured Ships of a speed of less than ten knots, and in favour of applying it to the necessary
 819
 SIR JOHN HAY : Including Abyssinian expenditure.
 SIR JOHN HAY  thanked his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty, not for his Estimates, which he thought were insufficient, but for the clear and candid statement he had made to the House as to the state of the Navy generally; above all, he thanked him for his excellent defence of his lamented Friend, Mr. Corry, from all the slander which had been heaped upon him. The memory of Mr. Corry, he felt sure, would never be forgotten as that of the civilian in this country who best understood the wants of the Navy. He intended, he might add, to move to-morrow for a Committee to inquire into the state of our Iron-clad Fleet, but after the statement of his right hon. Friend, he did not think it would be necessary for him to take up the time of the House on the subject, or to force the right hon. Gentleman's hand, which would be unfair to one newly come into office. With regard to Vote 1, his right hon. Friend had mentioned the sums of money which had been appropriated to the public service, but he did not mention the number of men, and they ought to be contrasted, because in former days the number of men ruled the amount of money voted for the Navy. The sum appropriated to the Naval Service in 1868–9 was £10,806,690, and the number of men voted in that year was 67,120; but in this year's Estimates, which amounted to above £10,000,000, only 60,000 men, or 7,120 fewer, were provided for. Therefore, when the reduced expenditure was spoken of, hon. Members ought to remember that the Navy itself had been reduced both in the number of men and the quantity of supplies, as well as in the number of ships, of which
 879 880 881 "What I have said," remarked the right hon. Gentleman, "are plain official facts of which there is no doubt. …There are 5 in the Channel Fleet, 8 in the Reserve, 6 in the Mediterranean, 3 on distant stations, and 6 fitting out. … Of the 12 special ships, 2 are of the first class, 4 of the second, I of the third, and 5 of the fourth."…[3  Hansard Hercules Sultan Audacious Invincible Vanguard Iron Duke Swift-sure Triumph Bellerophon Lord Warden Lord Clyde Minotaur Agincourt Northumberland Royal Alfred Repulse Penelope 882 Achilles Royal Oak Prince Consort Caledonia Ocean Valiant Hector Zealous Warrior Defence Resistance Black Prince Pallas Favorite Research Enterprise Monarch Minotaur Hector Hercules Achilles Black Prince Valiant Audacious Penelope Agincourt Northumberland Lord Clyde Lord Warden Caledonia Ocean Prince Consort Royal Oak Zealous Favorite Enterprise Royal Alfred Monarch Prince Albert Royal Sovereign Rupert Cyclops Repulse Monarch 883 Superb Téméraire Inflexible Fury Shannon Thunderer Thunderer Superb 884 Superb Téméraire Superb, Téméraire, Inflexible, Shannon Fury 885
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Returns moved for by him upon the 3rd and 7th of April 1873, relating to "Turnpike Trusts" and "Roads and Bridges" in Scotland, and ordered by the House to be prepared, will be laid upon the Table?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I understand that the writers employed in the Customs consist partly of persons taken from the register of the Civil Service Commissioners and partly of people nominated by the Customs Commissioners. I am informed that both classes of writers are allowed sick leave with pay, though on different terms, and that the old writers were asked by the Board whether they wished to exchange their terms for those which were to be applicable to the rest of the writers? Only one accepted the offer, and all the others declined.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Gentleman asks me, in pursuance of the Notice he gave on Friday last, whether I can consent to the abolition of duty on refined sugar taking effect on the 10th of June instead of on the 21st of May. As I mentioned to the hon. Member on Friday, I named the 21st of May on the advice of the officers of Customs, not having then had any opportunity before I made my Budget Statement of communicating with gentlemen connected with the sugar trade. I promised to consider the subject between Friday and Monday, hoping that if I made such a public announcement,
 818
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , while promising to look into the particular case alluded to, pointed out that it was the practice of the Auditor General to bring irregularities to the notice of the Committee of Public Accounts, and thereby to secure their rectification.
 SIR SYDNEY WATERLOW  asked the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, Whether his attention has
 815
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  seconded the Amendment.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is correct that a Medal for the Ashantee Expedition is to be given to all Officers, Non-Commissioned Officers, and Men who were sent out to Cape Coast Castle; and, if so, whether as a simple act of
 813
 SIR WILLIAM CUNINGHAME  said, he would vote for the Amendment, but he did so with regret, because he knew the tenant-farmers of Scotland would be disappointed to learn that no measure having for its object the improvement of the game laws was to be proceeded with this Session. He, however, considered it a lesser evil to postpone the settlement of the question for a short time, than to accept a measure so objectionable as the Bill before the House. No doubt there were some good proposals in the Bill—such as the assimilation of the law of Scotland to that of England as to the ownership of game, and the provision for altering the Court before which game cases were to be brought; and those suggestions would be very useful on any future occasion when the preparation of a measure on this subject was under the consideration as he trusted it would be shortly, of the
 1389
 SIR WILLIAM EDMONSTONE  said, that as another Scotch County Member, he begged to second the Amendment which had just been proposed by his hon. and gallant Friend. At the same time, he desired to express his thanks to the hon. Member for Linlithgowshire (Mr. M'Lagan) for attempting to settle a question which at the last election in Scotland stood very often—he was speaking for himself—like a hon in the path, and it was high time it should be settled. The great recommendation of the hon. Gentleman's Bill was that it was the most moderate Game Bill that had been submitted to the House, but the question was one which it would not do to tinker; and, therefore, as the Bill would not permanently settle the question, he thought it would be better to reject it altogether. The desire of himself and his friends was to protect their tenants from damage being done to their crops by hares and rabbits. But, at the same time, they desired that the rights of property should not be infringed in any single way. In his election address he said he was willing to give the tenants of farms the right to kill hares and rabbits, but not more than that—he would not take them off the game list, because by doing so they would give great encouragement to trespassers and poachers. There was one grievance which he admitted—that was, that the renters of shootings naturally allowed hares and rabbits to increase. This, to a certain extent, was undoubtedly a grievance. On the whole, however, he thought the question was misunderstood, and was made a bugbear of. He quite agreed with the Home Secretary that if they intended to get a settlement of the question, it
 1377
 VISCOUNT MACDUFF  said, that at the late elections in Scotland an eminent Member sitting on the other side of the House said he thought the tenant should have a joint right with the landlord in ground game. He sincerely hoped that that hon. Gentleman and other hon. Members would use their influence with the Government to induce them to bring in a Bill dealing with this subject. He approved the fencing of deer forests whenever practicable, but that was not always the case.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, his attention had been called to the various serious accidents that had occurred at the colliery in question, and he had entered into communication with the Inspector of Mines on the subject. He would see what the inquiry that was to take place on the subject was to be, and it should be of a full and searching nature; but he could not say at present what form it would take.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : The Government have not at present any reason to anticipate that it will be necessary to postpone the coming into operation of the Judicature Act beyond the time fixed by the Act—namely, the 2nd of November in the present year. The first division of the Rules of Court directed by the Act to be prepared for the purposes mentioned in the Act is already printed and in the hands of a Committee of Judges for their consideration and advice. The second division of the Rules is in the press, and will shortly be in the hands of the Committee of Judges and of such other persons and bodies as it may be judged right to consult upon the subject, and there is
 925
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman would find the information he wanted in page 13 of the Army Estimates. There were 195 Staff appointments altogether which were provided for in the Estimates. There were 18 appointments of Deputy Assistant Adjutant-Generals and Deputy-Quartermasters. There were 22 Brigade Majors. Seven of these Deputy Assistant Adjutant Generals were Musketry Instructors and required special qualification.
 MR. JAMES  asked the First Commissioner of Works, If the light in the Clock Tower of the Houses of Parliament is to be permanently retained; and, if so, whether its objects might not equally be secured without the projections by which the architectural outline of the building is at present disfigured?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : The Clock Tower was proposed to the House as an experiment by a right hon. Predecessor of mine at the Board of Works—Mr. Ayrton. So purely tentative was it that Mr. Ayrton declined, at the time, to insert any sum to meet the expenses connected with it in the Estimates of that year. The question whether the light is to be made permanent or not is one in which I shall be guided solely by the wishes of hon. Members. I can, however, assure the hon. Member that, under any circumstances, it was never contemplated to retain the present glass lantern, which disfigures the Victoria Tower; at the same time, it is my duty to state that the cost of establishing a permanent light would be considerable both in the process of fitting up and its maintenance.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, this subject was only brought under his notice last night, when he saw his hon. and learned Friend's Question for the first time. Therefore, he had
 927
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the two subjects mentioned in the Question had no reference to the War Office Estimates at all. With regard to the projected prison near Wormwood Scrubs, a Vote was taken last year in the Civil Service Estimates. The site, he might remark, was not on Wormwood Scrubs, but on some land adjacent, which had been purchased from the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. No decision had been come to with regard to converting Millbank prison into cavalry barracks, and there were many objections to such a scheme.
 MR. HERBERT  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that on the recent occasion of the moving a battery of Horse Artillery from Ballincollig to Woolwich, and thence to Shorncliff, a medical officer was sent to march with them who was unable to ride, and that in order to accompany the battery one of the officers had to lend him a dog-cart?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, his hon. Friend must imagine that some one at the War Office possessed the power of flying, or of being, like the bird mentioned by Sir Boyle Roche, in two places at once. The Question was only put on the Paper last night, and it referred to an occurrence in Ireland. It
 928
 MR. CARTWRIGHT  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Why the Slave Trade Papers, classes A and B, presented in August last, have not yet been distributed; and, whether a despatch dated the 30th of June has been correctly printed?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that no one was more anxious than himself that there should be a full and impartial inquiry into the cause of the accident referred to by the hon. Gentleman. It was an accident of no ordinary severity. He believed that no fewer than 48 lives had been lost by it. The Return for which the hon. Gentleman moved would be laid on the Table of the House as soon as it could be prepared. With regard to the opinion of the District Inspector, Mr. Wynne, if the hon. Member would look in the volume of Reports on Mines for 1871, he would find that an accident occurred in this mine in 1870 by which nine persons lost their lives. The Inspector made a Report, in which he said that nine persons had been killed; that the accident had been caused by bad management, or, rather, by no management at all; that for two years he had been warning the proprietor that some accident of the kind was inevitable if a competent manager were not appointed to that mine. The Inspector went on to say that he thought the manager a very good underground man, but not a man having the amount of specific knowledge that was requisite for managing a mine of that character, or one fit to meet any emergency which might arise. That opinion, of the Inspector was endorsed, not only by the Coroner, but by the jury. There was nothing more important than that the mining population should be assured
 944
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  remarked that he had no objection to the hon. Member proceeding with the Bill if he consented to have it reprinted.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  observed that as to the appointment of clerks of the peace, he thoroughly concurred in the decision at which the Government had arrived—namely, that under certain conditions those appointments might he vested in corporations.
 949 950
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE : I rise to Order. The hon. Gentleman, I submit, is not entitled to refer to a Bill not now under discussion.
 MR. SULLIVAN  remarked that the hon. Member for Monaghan (Mr. Leslie) had informed them that he detested this Bill, but he did not give them any particular reason for doing so.
 "I do not like you, Dr. Fell; The reason why I cannot tell, But this I know; and feel full well, I do not like you, Dr. Fell." 956
 MR. O'CALLAGHAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring forward, this Session, any measure relating to denominational education in Ireland?
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  said, he did not see much objection to the Motion, and if the hon. Member would consent to strike out the four words "such as the Abstract" he should offer no opposition to the Resolution. He had, however listened with astonishment to the speech of the hon. Gentleman he had stated in plain language that, in consequence of no signature being attached to this Abstract of Correspondence, the India Office had trimmed and selected it for the purpose of loading the public to a wrong conclusion, and that it was not an impartial statement, but showed an  animus 940
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, he had read the telegrams alluded to by the hon. Member, and they appeared to him to be of such a nature as not to require replies. No telegram had been received at the India Office from the Governments of India or Bengal which required a reply and which remained unanswered.
 MR. MACDONALD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If, considering the frequency of the disasters in the Astley Deep Coal Pits near Dukinfield, he will consider the expediency of instituting a special and searching investigation into the causes of the recent accident, and also into the general management of the mine or pits?
 MR. DISRAELI : It appears to me that some business ought to be reserved for hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 MR. HORSMAN  desired to ask the Prime Minister, whether the Bill could not, after what had occurred, be dealt with as a Government measure?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he could not help expressing the pleasure with which he had heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland. It seemed to him inconceivable that there was any truth in the rumour that the Government intended to pooh-pooh the Bill, for its principle was the principle of assimilation, which to his mind conveyed the principle of Union. The principle of action in that House was to determinedly oppose what was known here as Home Rule, and the more determined they were in that direction, the more resolved they should be to encourage and appreciate measures for Ireland of a remedial character promoted in the Imperial Parliament. The more strenuously they opposed separation, the more willing should they be to welcome overtures towards assimilation. The Bill went a small way; but it was impossible to overrate the importance of its acceptance, as an indication of the future policy of the Cabinet. Ireland had always been a difficulty to English Governments, and particularly to all Conservative Governments. Happily, that difficulty was now removed, because the present Government was in as smooth water as any former Government had been, and it was a matter of congratulation to all those who valued the peace and contentment of Ireland to see a course taken by the Government which not only met the approval of both sides of the House, but would be approved on both sides of the Channel.
 MR. O'DONNELL  said, that in the course of his speech he did his utmost to avoid imputing anything improper to any person; but, at the same time, men of the most honourable private character would, under the influence of strong party feeling, put forth statements to which legitimate objection might be taken. Nevertheless, respect for private virtue ought not to blind Members to what caused inconvenience to the public. Of course, he did not challenge the statement that the signature of Sir Henry Anderson at a certain page of the Abstract carried with it editorial responsibility. For all that, there had really appeared to be no clue to the person who was responsible for the compilation of these Abstracts. Sir Henry Anderson's signature seemed
 942
 MR. O'DONNELL  rose to move—
 "That in the case of Abstracts and Summaries, such as the 'Abstract of Correspondence between the Government of India and the Secretary of State in Council relative to the drought in Bengal,' recently presented to Parliament without any guarantee as to the selection or editing of the contents, the name of the selector or editor shall he appended for the information of Parliament." bona fides The Pall Mall Gazette The Spectator 934 935 936 animus 937 extenso 938
 MR. O'DONNELL  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether his attention has been drawn to the collection of "Telegrams between the Government of India and the Secretary of State in Council, from October 1873 to 31st March 1874;" and, if it be actually the case that from the 18th of December 1873 to the 11th of February 1874 no less than eighteen telegrams of the India and Bengal Governments failed to elicit a single telegram in reply from the Council of State for India?
 MR. ANDERSON  said, the proper and more convenient course would probably be for the Chairman to leave the Chair and report Progress.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, it had been suggested to him that instead of moving the Amendments on Clause 4, of which he had given Notice, he should move certain alterations on Clause 3, and leave out Clause 4 altogether. He moved that the words "letters, circulars, and telegrams" be added to Clause 3.
 MR. ANDERSON  agreed to do so. reported Monday printed
 COLONEL BRUEN  expressed a hope that attention would be given to the details of the Bill in Committee, more especially to the proposal to vest in corporations the right of appointing clerks of the peace, because he was not at all certain that the duties of clerks of the peace in England and in Ireland were identical. With that observation, however, he was glad that the Government had assented to the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON  did not propose to offer any objection to this Bill, but it was an inconvenient mode of proceeding, to move Amendments of which Notice had not been given.
 MR. BUTT , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, he thought a simple statement of its provisions the best argument he could use to induce the House to assent to its principle. The object of the measure was to give to corporations in counties, cities and towns in Ireland the same privileges as corporations in counties, cities, and towns in England enjoyed. In the shape in which he intended ultimately to present it to the House, the Bill dealt with only two offices, those of the High Sheriff and the Clerk of the Peace. There was in the Bill at present a clause restoring to the corporation of Dublin the right of electing their Recorder as the corporation of London now elected theirs; but he thought there was an answer to that analogy. In a Bill professing to claim equal privileges for the two countries, he could scarcely avoid making that claim for the corporation of Dublin. But the Corporation of London was not included in the English Municipal Reform Bill. All the corporations which were included in it lost the privilege of electing their Recorders.' Therefore, he could not rely on that accident as entitling him to claim that privilege for the City of Dublin, and if the House read the Bill the second time he intended in Committee to move the omission of that part of the measure. As to sheriffs and clerks of the peace, he had an unanswerable case. From ancient times wherever there was a corporation in a county or town, that corporation possessed the right of electing its own sheriffs. On the reform of municipal corporations, the right was retained in England, while in Ireland it was vested in the Crown. Whatever might have been urged for this on the principles of a policy which he hoped was bygone, the distinction could not be justified in the present state of political feeling. Exclusive of the City of London, which elected sheriffs not only for London but for Middlesex, there were 20 English corporations which enjoyed the right; while in Ireland not a single sheriff was nominated by popular election. Could English Gentlemen assign any reason
 946 947
 MR. BUTT  said, he hoped that some facilities would now be given for proceeding with the Bill as the Government had given their sanction to it. He most cordially accepted the assistance which the Government had afforded him, and he hoped that he might look upon it as a kindly intimation of the friendly feeling of the Government towards Ireland.
 MR. DUNBAR  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, following the precedent adopted in the constitution of the Labour Laws Commission, upon which two representatives of the working men have been placed, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to place upon the proposed Commission on the Civil Service one or more members of that Service of the grade of Clerk, taken from some public office outside the Treasury; and, whether it is intended that the proposed Commission should inquire into the alleged grievances of the permanent Civil Service as regarded organisation, or only into those grievances under which the temporary Clerks and Writers are said to labour?
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Secretary of State for War, What is the number of Staff appointments of which the vacancies can only be filled by Officers who have passed the final examination of the Staff College by Royal Engineers or by Officers distinguished for service in the field; and, what is the total number of Staff appointments (including both the general and personal Staffs) provided for in the Estimates?
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  seconded the Resolution.
 MR. SAMUDA  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, If he is aware that a notice has lately been put up in Victoria Park, near the Victoria Park Railway Station, offering to let ground in the Park on building leases direct from the Crown; and, if such appropriation of the ground to building purposes would not be in violation of "The Victoria Park Act, 1872," and the understanding come to between the Metropolitan Board of Works and the Government to secure the Park unbuilt over for the public?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  wished, first of all, to say that the Bill rejected on Friday night was not rejected from a desire on the part of any Member to deprive Ireland of any privileges conceded to England, but because the circumstances of the two countries were so different on that point that a franchise in Ireland would swamp property by numbers which had not that effect in England. The Bill now before the House might be considered under three heads. With regard to the Recorder of Dublin, he did not wish to make any remarks upon that point, because he understood the hon. and learned Member to say that he would not press it in Committee. But he might remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that, in addition to the reasons which he had himself given against his own proposal, there was this difference between the Recorder ships in London and Dublin—that whilst the Corporation of London paid the salary of their Recorder, four-fifths of the salary of the Recorder of Dublin was paid by the Crown. It, therefore, seemed reasonable that the Crown should have the power of appointment. But with regard to the matters which the hon. and learned Member proposed to leave in his Bill—namely, the transfer of the power of appointment of sheriffs and clerks of the peace from the Lord Lieutenant to the municipal authorities, it was true that in England, in boroughs having their own courts of quarter sessions, the Town Councils had the right of appointing their cleric of the peace, while in Ireland the appointment was vested in the Lord Lieutenant. Looking at the second reading of the Bill as the admission of a  primâ facie 948
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, he understood the meaning of the Question to be this—whether it was intended to substitute any purely denominational system of education for the national system of education now existing in Ireland? It was not the
 924
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, he should then confine himself to the Bill under discussion now; but seeing that the principle involved in both cases was the same, it was difficult to avoid illustrating the one by the other. The present was a particular Bill and a small Bill, but it had, no doubt, been carefully considered by the Government, and he hoped that the larger and more important Bills that would be brought before the House would be dealt with in a similar spirit. After all, there were only seven corporations in Ireland, and the Bill did little more than put into the hands of those corporations the power of selecting their own sheriffs, and give the appointment of an important paid officer, the clerk of the peace. He was glad that that patronage had been taken away from the Castle at Dublin; for it was mainly through those small offices that the whole country had been corrupted, and its Parliamentary representation demoralized. [ A laugh
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, that the other night the Government thought fit to oppose the second reading of a Bill to assimilate the Irish municipal franchise to that of England. He was glad that on this occasion the right hon. Gentleman did not think it desirable to pursue a similar policy. The Bill to which he referred—
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY : I think I am entitled to refer to it for the purpose of showing the manner in which these questions have been dealt with in this House. On that occasion—["Order."]
 MR. R. E. PLUNKETT , in seconding the Motion, said, this was not a case of the familiar claims of the conventional working man; he did not advance the dubious claim of disaffection; the case simply was that there was a population; of 23,000 in the Forest, without sanitary provision for 5,000, or proper house room for half their number. From one of those complications of Bights so often fertile in Wrongs, the evils were daily increasing without the fault of any one and unless the question was taken up by the Government the evil would go on increasing as it had done up to that time. For years after the Forest of Dean had become an extensive iron and coal field, it was administered simply as if it were a forest for supplying oak to the Navy; and an administration admirably adapted to watching the slow growth of oaks was not adapted to the growing wants of a mining population. The population had trebled itself in 38 years, and such a rate of increase could not be met by inelastic legislation. The account
 932 d s d
 MR. BOURKE : The papers referred to were presented in a merely formal manner in August last. They were not at that time ready to be laid on the Table. I am not aware of the precise cause of the delay; but they are ready now, and will be distributed next week. I have compared the despatch of the 80th of June with the copy in the Foreign Office, and find that it is given verbatim in the Papers already printed. Some additional Papers connected with the slave Trade on the East Coast of Africa are in preparation, and will shortly be ready for presentation.
 COLONEL KINGSCOTE , in rising to move that a Select Committee be appointed—
 "To inquire into the Laws and rights affecting Dean Forest, and the condition thereof having especial regard to the social and sanitary wants of its increasing population; and further to inquire whether it is expedient that any, and if so what, legislation should take place with respect to such Forest, and the future disposition or management of the same," 930 s s d 931
 MR. W. H. SMITH : I am aware that a notice has been put up offering to lot about half an acre of land in Victoria Park for building purposes. The proposed appropriation of the ground is not, however, in violation of the Victoria Park Act of 1872, or of the understanding come to between the Metropolitan Board of Works and the Government. This particular piece of land was offered to the Metropolitan Board of Works, and expressly excluded by them from the arrangement as too small to be of any use. I have visited the
 929
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, he should not detain the House at any length, as it was the intention of the Government to grant the Committee. In doing so they did not wish to commit themselves to any policy whatever, or to the acceptance of the statement of his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Kingscote); not that they questioned in the slightest degree the many facts he had communicated to the House. The question was one full of difficulties, which it was right a Committee should investigate. One of the main difficulties arose from the rights of squatters who had been allowed to occupy property belonging to the Crown, and had thereby acquired certain interests in it. Their rights could
 933
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  asked Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill to postpone the coming into operation of the Judicature Act beyond the time fixed, namely, November next; and, if not, whether he can state how soon the Code of Rules providing the new practice and machinery necessary for the working of the Act will be laid before the profession and the public?
 MR. FORSYTH  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether the sum of £5,000 was not voted in the Estimates last year for the purpose of enabling a prison to be built at Wormwood Scrubs, with the view of removing there the prisoners now detained in Millbank Prison, and converting that prison into barracks for troops; and, whether any steps have been taken to give effect to such vote?
 MR. FORSYTH  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether, considering the importance of the neighbourhood and the strong feeling of the inhabitants against the continuance of the Knightsbridge Barracks, it is the intention of the Government to take down those barracks; and, if so, how soon?
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, if the Motion were altered as proposed, there would be very little sense in it.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  joined in the hope that the unpleasant charge against Sir Henry Anderson would be withdrawn, and bore testimony to the honourable character and good service of that distinguished public servant as a thorough guarantee to the House for the fidelity and trustworthy nature of the summaries of the Correspondence relating to the Famine. A more difficult task could not be assigned to anyone than that of placing before the House an exact and unobjectionable
 941
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was not in Order in alluding to a former debate of the present Session.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, that as a friend and well-wisher to Ireland, he desired to express the great satisfaction with which he had heard that it was not the intention of the Government to oppose the second reading of the Bill. He had not been aware that the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) intended on Friday night to bring on the second reading of his Bill
 952 "To calm the dissensions, allay the animosities, and dissipate the jealousies which have unfortunately existed: as a measure whose object is to communicate to the sister kingdom the skill, the capital, and the industry which have raised this country to such a pitch of opulence; to give to her a full participation of the commerce and of the constitution of England: to unite the affections and resources of two powerful nations; and to place under one public will the direction of the whole force of the Empire."—[ Parl. History 953 "Vestigia nulla retrorsum" 954
 MR. LESLIE  was happy to say that he entirely disagreed with the observations of the hon. Member who had just sat clown. He congratulated the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Butt) on having achieved, with that brilliant strategy which he had already exhibited this Session, a third triumph of party feeling. He (Mr. Leslie) had a horror of Bills such as the one now before the House, which he believed were, in common with many others that were to come, both plausible and mischievous. The sister of this Bill, now happily entombed, had the same peculiarities, for while it pretended to assimilate the law of Ireland to that of England, the hon. and learned Member took care not to make known how totally different were the circumstances between the two countries. He detested Bills of this kind—possibly from a superstitious veneration for the principles of the old Constitution, which could never be departed front without danger to public liberty. He would not detain the House, especially as he appeared to be arguing against the wisdom of the Government, which was far from his intention. But he must hazard one more observation. In a speech which the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) delivered not long since, he complained of a grievance which now no longer existed—namely, that Irish questions were put off to the dead hours of the night, that it was frequently 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning before they came to be considered, and
 955
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he had considered whether it would not be expedient to place upon the Commission on the Civil Service a person occupied as senior clerk
 926
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the Government did not intend to bring in any measure, dealing with the subject contained in the Question of the hon. Baronet. He thought the hon. Baronet would be perfectly aware that it had been under the consideration of the Judicature Commission, and it would be some weeks yet before their Report on it was received. When that Report was presented, it would obtain the most careful consideration at the hands of the Government.
 Mr. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he thought the course pursued by the hon.
 958
 MR. LOPES , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, the evils he proposed to remedy had been long admitted and frequently recognized by Parliament. He proposed to remedy
 965 966 967 Primâ facie d s de novo 968
 DR. CAMERON  wished to point out that the present restrictions of the law as to solicitations for votes by officers in the Customs and Post Office were disregarded, for deputations had waited upon him with a view of having their salaries increased.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he would admit that 12 minds were better than seven, provided all 12 were concentrated on the evidence; but if there was a want of concentration with 12, a smaller number might be better, so far as it secured closer individual attention. He trusted that the question of qualification would be carefully considered, inasmuch as the variation in the value of property in different parts of the country made it a difficulty which no legislation could
 972
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, with regard to the defects complained of in the Act of 1873, they were defects in the practical working rather than in the principle of trial by jury. The present Bill was framed upon conclusions which were come to by the Select Committee of 1872, and at which the House arrived in the last Session of Parliament, when some 54 or 55 clauses of a Bill of 90 or 100 clauses were passed by the House, and therefore it now came before the House with much to recommend it. He would give his cordial support to the second reading, and he thanked the hon. and learned Member for offering to place it in the hands of the Government. He felt very much disposed to accept the offer, seeing the approval which the Bill had received from both sides of the House; and, though he could not do so at once, he would inform the hon. and learned Gentleman before the day fixed for going into Committee of the determination at which the Government should have arrived, after considering more in detail the clauses of the measure. On behalf of the Government he thanked the hon. and learned Member for the care and attention he had bestowed on the Bill, and the manner in which he had brought it forward; and as they desired that it, or a similar Bill, should passduring the Session, if it should not be taken up by the Government, he would give the hon. and learned Member every assistance in his power towards securing its passing.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he would also thank his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Frame (Mr. Lopes) for the great trouble and pains he had bestowed on this subject, and the care with which he had drawn the Bill. He must also endorse what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, that the Government hoped to see a Bill on this subject—either this Bill, or this Bill altered in certain particulars—passed before the end of the Session. The matter had been under discussion now several years, both in Committee up-stairs and in the House; and it was ripe for legislation. He need hardly say, however, that matters had been introduced into the discussion to-day on which some difference of opinion prevailed, He would undertake, on the part of the Government, that these points should have careful consideration before the Bill was set down for Committee; and if the Government could
 978
 MR. YOUNG  thought the hon. and learned Member for Frome (Mr. Lopes), deserved great thanks for having taken up the subject. Under ordinary circumstances the Government should have the charge of a Bill of this kind, but Governments had already tried their hand and failed, He should support the Bill, but at the same time he considered that the unanimity clause was capable of amendment, and also the clause with regard to the number of a jury. Without destroying the confidence of the public-injuries, he believed that the number of jurors in civil cases might be reduced with advantage. The hon. and learned Member proposed that the number should be seven, but he (Mr. Young) doubted whether the hon. and learned Member went far enough. In his opinion, it would be better to have only four. With the smaller number, the individuality and responsibility of each juror would be greater; and he was able to say from his own experience in Now South Wales, that the system of trying civil causes with four jurors had worked very successfully; as had also the plan of allowing three-fourths of the jury to give a verdict after all the members of the jury had deliberated together for a certain number of hours, and he should, therefore, take the opportunity of moving in Committee a non-unanimity clause, to the effect that after a certain number of hours' deliberation the verdict of three
 969
 MR. MONK  observed that the disabilities did not apply to the officers of Inland Revenue, but only to the officers of the Customs and the Post Office.
 MR. MONK  said, he had already referred to the opinion of Chief Justice Coleridge that the Bill was not required in reference to the Inland Revenue Department.
 MR. MONK , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that those hon. Members who sat in the last Parliament would remember that that was not a new subject; for this question had been several times under the notice of the House. When the Reform Bill of 1867 was passing through Committee, the then Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney) proposed the insertion of a clause, to enable officers connected with the Revenue Departments to exercise the franchise in the same way as other citizens; but as both the present and the late Prime Minister expressed an opinion that further consideration of the subject was desirable, and as the House was impatient to send the Bill up to "another place," the Motion of the hon. Baronet was negatived, and nothing-further was then done in the matter. The following year, in conjunction with Sir Harry Verney and Mr. Otway, he (Mr. Monk) brought in a Bill to remove from the officers of the three Revenue Departments—namely, the Inland Revenue, the Customs, and the Post Office—certain restrictions which had been placed on them with regard to elections by an Act passed at the instance of the Rockingham Ministry in 1782. At that time the influence of those officers in certain boroughs was so great that, according to a statement of the Marquess of Rockingham, they were able to command a majority in no less than
 959 "With regard to the Inland Revenue officers, he believed they might now vote, and also interfere
 960 Hansard employés 961
 MR. NORWOOD  supported the Bill. It applied to the  employés
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I certainly think the principle of this measure is principle. The Act, as originally carried, was tentative, and left it to the Supreme Courts to decide on those cases; but I am quite sensible of this, that the Sheriff Courts will be the proper tribunal before which questions which interest so much the labouring classes ought to be tried, and therefore I give my assent to the principle of the Bill. Indeed, I intended if I got an opportunity—as I hope I still will—of introducing a Bill for the reform of the Sheriff Courts, to incorporate something of the kind which is now proposed; but the principle of the Bill I think is right, and therefore I hope the Mouse will agree to the second reading. There is one clause which I think my hon. Friend should alter. It is Clause 16, which has reference to the fortunes of married women, and power is given to the Court to consider whether the creditors of the husband are not entitled to come in and swoop it away. The question here involved is one of great difficulty and delicacy, and one which in England is peculiarly the province of the Court of Chancery. It is not likely to be raised in eases brought by the poorer classes, and therefore I would suggest that when the Bill gets into Committee the clause in question should be so amended as to exclude such cases from the jurisdiction of the Sheriff Courts.
 MR. ANDERSON , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said: Sir, the House, I am sure, will not be sorry to learn that five minutes will be more than enough to enable me to explain the scope and objects of the Bill. Some explanation is necessary, because its unfortunate title in no way tells its story. It ought to be the Deserted Wife's Earnings Bill," or the Married Woman's Property Bill," for it deals with no other subject. The reason it is necessary is, that in 1861 an Act was passed, dealing with divorce and other conjugal rights, in which a few clauses were introduced dealing with the earnings and property of married women deserted by their husbands; but the jurisdiction was confined to the Court of Session, which, being our highest Court, and sitting in Edinburgh, has alone hitherto dealt with such cases. The consequence has been that the Act has, so far as they are concerned, been pretty much a dead letter; and the reason is, that women who are deserted by their husbands belong mostly to the lower classes, and that they are a great deal too poor to be able to go to Edinburgh and apply to the Court of Session for redress. The existence of the Act has accordingly been little else than a tantalizing mockery. Few persons can have lived in Scotland, especially if they have occupied any magisterial capacity, without having brought under their notice many cases of great hardship, in which poor married women, deserted by their husbands, had succeeded in collecting a little property, and were rearing their families respectably—it may be they had succeeded in getting a shop—and who were liable at any time to a visit from a worthless husband, who might come in
 979
 MR. GREGORY  congratulated his hon. and learned Friend on the favourable reception which the Bill had met with from the House. He admitted there was no magic in the number 12. but what they had to consider in legislating upon this subject was a regard to what had happened in the past, and the state of public feeling, and, to a certain extent, public prejudice. With reference to the number, it was a considerable alteration to propose that it should be reduced to seven, and it would be hardly wise to carry the reduction further. For his own part, he believed the latter would be a convenient number, and that by its adoption they would materially reduce the number to be called upon the jury list. With regard to the question of unanimity, it was a very anomalous tiling that one juryman should be able to force terms on the rest, and, as it were, to compel them to split the difference, and therefore, if in Committee the hon. Member for Helston (Mr. Young) would propose some modification of the present system, he would be inclined, not only to consider, but to entertain it, especially if directed to the prevention of one individual juryman enforcing terms on the rest. His principal reason, however, for addressing the House, was to urge the Government either to take up the Bill, or to afford facilities for its discussion.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, he fully-concurred in what had been said as to the debt of the House to the hon. and learned Member for introducing the Bill; but was afraid—though it could scarcely have fallen into abler hands—he would have some difficulty in passing it, unless the Government took it up. The necessity of the Bill no one could doubt, for the practical experience of those who came into contact with juries showed that some alteration, particularly in the qualification of special juries, was absolutely necessary. It was advisable that a Bill should be passed as speedily as possible, and therefore he would urge the Attorney General to take charge of this Bill. His hon. and learned Friend would have an easy task, for the hon. and learned Member for Frame had done his work well, and, moreover, the provisions of the Bill had been framed after a careful consideration of facts by a Select Committee, and a Bill like it very nearly passed in the last Parliament, and it was therefore a legacy which the present Government might very well accept. The discussion that was now taking place, however, would not be useless: but would help to smooth and simplify the future course of the measure. The qualification fixed by the Bill was that adopted
 973 c 974
 MR. CHILDERS  hoped the House would assent to the very wise course proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—namely, that before dealing with the Bill in Committee, there should be an enquiry as to those who were, and those who were not, subject to disabilities, and also whether or not the interests of the public service required that these disabilities should be continued. At the same time, he wished the House to understand that the position of public servants was not So very simple with respect to elections as might seem at first sight to the advocates of this Bill. The Government possessed, in addition to the power of reprimanding, degrading or dismissing, very largo powers with regard to the transfer of public servants from one part of the country to another, and it was most important that the Government should not be liable to the imputation of making such transfers for some political motive connected with elections. For instance, there might be
 964
 MR. SERJEANT SIMON  said, with regard to the payment of common juries, he saw no reason why, if special jurors were to be paid, common jurors should not be paid also. Indeed, special jurors, from their position in life, were better able to give their time without injury to themselves than small tradesmen, and if they could not be placed on the same footing, he should much prefer seeing their remuneration abolished altogether. He did not approve of some of the qualifications contained in the Bill, lie did not approve of a director or manager of a company, as such, being held to be fitted to sit on a jury to try cases, as many of them did not command the confidence of the commercial world, and ought not to be allowed to sit in judgment on the rights and liberties of others. As regarded unanimity, it was idle to talk of there being in general a unanimity of 12 jurymen. In general the case was virtually decided by two or three jurors, whose lead the others followed. He therefore approved of the provision proposed by the Bill for reducing the number of jurors in civil cases to seven.
 MR. WHITWELL , in moving that the Order for the Second Reading of the Bill be deferred till Friday, 12th June, said, he took that step because an important Report of the Judicature Commission, referring to the subject of Tribunals of Commerce, had only yesterday been published, and there had been no time for its consideration by the Chambers of Commerce in the country. Moreover, an Appendix to the same Report had not yet been printed, no trusted that Government, after giving the matter full consideration, would feel warranted in carrying out the reform which the proposals of the Commission foreshadowed.
 MR. O'SHAUGHNESSY  considered that the Civil servants had a right to express their opinions on all subjects, and he should give them an opportunity of legally doing so.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, that the plan which the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone proposed had been recommended 40 years ago by a Royal Commission composed of the most experienced lawyers of that day. One reason for accepting the verdict of a majority in a civil cause after a jury had been three or four hours in consultation was, that a new trial could be granted, and the dissidence of a minority would be an additional reason for granting it. Again and again he had been asked to release juries that could not agree, and when half an hour afterwards a verdict was given it was impossible to suppose that the dissenting jurymen had been convinced. Certainly. 12 jurymen had not the same opportunity for discussion as a lesser number, and the reduction of the number would increase the sense of individual responsibility. It was true that with the increased number the chance of having some with special qualifications would be increased; but that would not be an unmixed advantage, as special qualifications would bring with them special prejudices. To insist on keeping up the maximum, moreover, was to increase the burden, and he was afraid that would lead to growing dissatisfaction with the system, and he wished by reducing the burden to improve the working of the system. He thought the clause in the Bill most valuable which, for the first time, introduced as a disqualification the having been convicted of the crimes of treason, felony, or any other infamous offence, or being an uncertificated bankrupt, for it was not an unusual thing to try cases of great commercial importance with one or more uncertificated bankrupts on the jury.
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  said, with reference to the observation of the hon. and learned Member for Leeds (Mr. Wheelhouse, he did not understand that the Bill would be referred to a Select Committee; but that the Government would make a statement on it upon going into a Committee of the Whole House.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  also congratulated the hon. and learned Member who had brought in the Bill on its main features, but said, there were one or two points on which he wished to make a few observations. The recent change of the qualification for special jurors had caused a marked deterioration in special jurors, as had been remarked by all who regularly attended the Courts. Again, after full consideration, and hearing all that was to be said in favour of the proposal, he thought it would be a great mistake to reduce the number of jurymen from 12 to seven. Trial by jury in this country had been a most successful institution.
 970
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he was glad the Government did not intend to oppose this Bill, for which he should vote. It was an anomalous thing that while the officers of the Excise could canvass and take an active part at elections, the officers of the Customs and the Post Office clerks could not do so. The Bill proposed to do away with that disability, and he most cordially supported it.
 MR. FORSYTH  begged to thank his hon. and learned, Friend (Mr. Lopes) for making his Bill a complete digest of the Jury Law. Of late years a pernicious practice had grown up of passing Acts which referred to other Acts so that it became necessary to look at those Acts and see what the law really
 975 vicinetum venue de novo 976
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  supported the Bill. He was extremely glad Government had determined not to oppose it, but leave it to a Select Committee to decide if it was conducive to the public interest. He hoped the Select Committee would have power to inquire into everything which affected the present status of the Civil servants of the Crown.
 MR. GOLDNEY  advocated the proposal that the Government should take the Bill up, inasmuch as there were many arrangements to be made in the jury system which could be much better carried out by the Government than by a private Member. With reference to the question of local taxation involved, the late Attorney General, now Lord Coleridge, last year assented to the principle of charging the jury list on the Consolidated Fond.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, he hoped that Her Majesty's Government would take charge of the Bill, and endeavour to pass it this Session. They had heard in recent years the noble institution of trial by jury assailed. He could only say, after many years experience, having often presided at both civil and criminal trials, he had been struck with the intelligence and the care which juries brought to the exercise of their duties, and he had derived much assistance from them. Although he entertained an old-fashioned predilection for the time-honoured number of 12 jurymen, he was disposed to acquiesce in the reduction of the number to seven; but he had heard with the greatest satisfaction that his hon. and learned Friend did not propose to interfere with the principle of unanimity. If unanimity were not insisted upon, the result would be that in capital cases there would be an uneasy feeling in the public mind that the minority in favour of acquittal were right. He was, therefore,
 971
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill, during the present Session, for the appointment of Public prosecutors?
 MR. HUDDLESTON  said, that he regretted to find that no provision had been made in the Bill for the better accommodation of jurymen, a subject to which he had directed the attention of the Select Committee of 1867–8. In this country they were much to be pitied, because they were worse treated in the English Courts than in any other Courts in Europe. They were crammed into the smallest space possible, and, as
 977 s s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would admit at once that that was a question which required very careful consideration, and that the Government should also take into consideration the experience which bad been gained since the passing of the measure which was introduced by the hon. Member some few years ago, for removing from public officers the disabilities under which they formerly lay I in reference to voting at elections. At the same time, he would point out that the question was one of a very serious and important character, and not to be treated as simply a question whether they should remove from certain officers disabilities which were likely to be annoying and offensive to them. It required careful consideration whether they should extend to Revenue officers, not the right of voting simply—for that they gained some years ago—but the right of taking an active part, in canvassing, and at election meetings. It was also a question whether taking off the disability would be to do the officers a service or a disservice. It should be considered how far the disabilities operated to protect the officers in the performance of their somewhat delicate duties. He gladly bore testimony to the honourable character of the officers in the Civil Service generally, and to the great courage, fidelity, and honesty with which they performed their sometimes unpleasant and onerous functions, but he thought that that high character should be guarded in every possible way. The public had at present confidence in their servants, but it should be considered whether their position might not be altered for the worse by their being turned into political partisans. The Excise officers, for instance, were employed in assessing the amount of duty which should be paid by persons engaged in various trades, and this duty naturally brought them into collision with such persons. If the officers were turned into political partisans, would not imputations as to their impartiality be cast upon them?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : At all events the Commissioners of Inland Revenue were, on the 13th of this month, of opinion, according to their Report, that the gentlemen in their department were under this disability, because they said that they thought it unnecessary to repeat the statements in their former Report, of the danger which they apprehended from the removal of the disability; for such things must occur readily to anybody. Suppose, for instance, an officer who was a political partizan were accused of showing undue favour, or of acting with undue severity, to one person or the other. The House, moreover, should be in full possession of the present opinions of the officers of Inland Revenue and Customs as to the expediency of allowing officers employed in the Customs Department to take an active part in canvassing or to attend political meetings, and therefore it appeared to him that the proper course to take on the present occasion would be to let the second reading of the Bill pass without opposition. In the interval between the second reading and going into Committee, the Government would take the matter fully into their consideration, and would call for further information from the officers of the two great Revenue Departments, and see in what way they had better deal with the subject. The hon. Gentleman was aware that it was easy for an officer of the Customs to give offence in the performance of his duties, or to be accused of giving offence. Frequently his superiors were obliged to remove him from some place where he had got into disagreements, or was supposed to have become so closely allied with certain persons that it was thought better for the interests of the public service that he should be transferred to another place. If such circumstances were attributed to political reasons, a very uncomfortable element would be
 963
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if that were so the case was somewhat altered.
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it be true that the Royal Artillery stationed at Ipswich are unable to carry on artillery practice, as heretofore, at Landguard, owing to the objection of the Lord of the Manor of the district; and, in consequence, have to march to Lowestoft to carry on the said practice, at a considerable increase of expense to the public; whether it is true that a toll
 984 d
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The prohibition by the Lord of the Manor of practice at Landguard makes arrangements for carrying out artillery practice in future at Lowestoft necessary. A jetty was erected at a cost of £909 by the War Department in 1871–2 for landing iron shields and other materials. Colonel Tomline, the Lord of the Manor, claimed the foreshore on which it stands, and was successful in the Court of Chancery in maintaining his claim. He then charged a royalty of 6 d s 985
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that as far as he was able to learn, no application of the kind had been made up to the present moment. No such application had been made either to the Home Office or to the Irish Office in London, and if such application were made the Government would think it right that the House should have an opportunity of considering the matter.
 MR. SACKVILLE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the fact that Officers who served with their regiments during the late operations on the Gold Coast are only to be allowed climate pay of 8a. a day, while Special Service Officers have received extra pay at the rate of £11 s s d
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : One guinea a day was given as a consolidated rate in lieu of all allowances to Special Service officers, and field-officers received hammock pay in addition. Regimental officers already on the Gold Coast received a uniform rate of climate pay at 3 s 990
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the Council of Supervision had pointed out the difficulty of dealing adequately in Broadmoor Asylum with two classes of lunatics—namely, those who were convicts under sentence of penal servitude and those who had been acquitted of offences on the ground of insanity. The Inspector of Convict Prisons was induced to think that the former class should be transferred to another asylum. That recommendation he had referred to the officer in charge of this particular department, and as soon as that gentleman sent in his Report he would take some action in the matter.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he had received communications from various authorities throughout the country with reference to this Act. Part of those communications were of a confidential character, and he did not think it would be right to lay them before the House. But if the hon. Member would do him the favour of calling upon him at the Home Office, he would have the pleasure of showing him such communications as were not of that character.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he stated the other day that, with regard to the burghs in Scotland, he was prepared to alter the order issued by the Home Office respecting the appointment of the police as Inspectors of Nuisances in boroughs. With regard to counties that would be a somewhat different thing, because there the police boundaries and the sanitary boundaries were not identical. He thought, however, he could meet the case by altering the order issued in December last on the application of both the police and the sanitary authority to the Secretary of State.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The Motion, Sir, that you have just announced from the Chair is, I apprehend, the first practical step which the House will be called upon to take for the purpose of giving effect to the financial plans of the Government, the assent which it gave to certain Resolutions in the Committee on a former evening having been, as it were, only a formal step taken for practical purposes, and without reference to the subsequent course that Parliament may think fit to pursue. I, therefore, apprehend that this forms a suitable and convenient occasion for offering any general remarks on the financial proposals of Her Majesty's Government and of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. As it was my fate to be his immediate predecessor in the office he now worthily fills, perhaps the House will not think it strange that I should choose this opportunity for offering to it a few remarks. I have the satisfaction to say I do not rise for the purpose of entering on a general course of hostile criticisms of the proposals of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Still less do I rise for the purpose of placing in contrast or comparison with them any other proposals. The plans entertained by the late Government and by myself have been completely disposed of by the verdict, if not of the nation in every sense, yet of the constituencies at the recent General Election. I therefore feel myself able to approach the consideration of this subject without any prejudices or prepossessions, the influence of which might be largely felt provided there were some other scheme still within the possibility of being adopted, and in which I felt a nearer and a more affectionate interest than in that of my right hon. Friend. Again, if I look at the Amendments which have been placed on the Notice Paper, there is not one of those Amendments which I am disposed to support in contradistinction to the
 992 993 994 995 996 997 998 d d 999 1000 1001 1002 1003 s s 1004 1005 1006
 MR. LAING , in rising to move an Amendment substituting 3 d d 1042 d d 1043 1044 1045 1046 1047 1048 1049 1050 d d d
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  hoped that to whatever other determination the Committee or the House itself eventually might come, the proposal now made by the hon. Member for Orkney (Mr. Laing) would find no favour whatever. He (Mr. Wheelhouse) did not hesitate to say, that for years he had been most anxiously desirous of seeing the income tax—more especially so much of it as was involved in Schedule—totally abolished. For the first time, since the days of Sir Robert Peel, we had now a Revenue, unaided by income tax, amply sufficient for the estimated Expenditure of 1874–5, as the nucleus of our present year's financial operations. That Expenditure, as estimated, amounted in the aggregate to £72,503,000, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as he (Mr. Wheelhouse) understood the right hon.
 1051 d 1052
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  called the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the inconvenience of the present system, under which the Income Tax Act was passed for only a year ending on the 5th of April. As the financial year closed on the 31st March, and the Budget, therefore, could not be taken before that date, there was almost always an interregnum during which no income tax could legally be levied, and, though the Act rendered any dividends which might be paid during that period liable to such an income tax as the House might subsequently impose, the system was very inconvenient, and must involve a loss to the Exchequer. On the present occasion the dividends on the Public Funds themselves were paid on the 8th of April; but he did not quite understand, if they were due on or before the 5th, under what authority the payment was deferred until the 8th; or, if they were not due till the 8th, on what authority any income tax was deducted. But, however this might be, the dividends on
 1053 d d
 MR. HANKEY  corroborated the statements of his hon. Friend, and hoped the right hon. Gentleman would accede to the suggestion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  recognized the disadvantage and inconvenience to which attention had just been drawn, and promised to consult with the officers of the Revenue in regard to it. An hon. Friend of his, who was very acute in such matters, had suggested a difficulty by asking at what rate the tax would be levied for one month—whether at a twelfth part of 2 d
 MR. HORSMAN  acknowledged that although the Chancellor of the Exchequer had begun his speech in the earlier part of the evening with something like an apology for the undue prominence he had given to the Departmental officers who had assisted in the preparation of the Estimates, he had nevertheless followed it up with an explanation which seemed entirely satisfactory. The House ought not to be called upon to accept the opinions of the Revenue officers as to the Estimates with which Parliament had to deal. It was wrong, indeed, to apply the word "estimate" to what they laid before the Chancellor of the Exchequer. They gave him facts which he,
 1054 1055
 LORD ESLINGTON  expressed regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had come to a resolution to give up a penny of the income tax, and wished that the right hon. Gentleman had made up his mind to retain it. He (Lord Eslington) denied that the surplus was attributable to the income tax. He was not aware that any particular tax was appropriated to any particular purpose and it was the general prosperity of the country rather than any special source of revenue that gave us the surplus. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman) said the income tax was an immoral tax. It might lead to cases of fraud in some few instances; but that was no reason for thus describing a tax which was an enormous engine of power in the hands of a wealthy country like this, which the right hon. Gentleman himself admitted to be the basis of our financial prosperity, and which he (Lord Eslington) should be exceedingly loth to part with. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have acted more prudently if, before proposing a reduction of the income tax, he had taken stock of the great spending Departments; and, after informing the House what that stock was, have left it to them to say whether it was such as to justify the parting with this revenue.
 MR. HORSMAN : My noble Friend takes exception to my statement that the surplus was owing to the income tax. May I ask him how he made his calculation, and where the surplus would be without the income tax?
 MR. SANDFORD  explained that one reason why he did not persevere with the Motion of which he had given Notice was that a Chancellor of the Exchequer who had been only six weeks in office could not be fairly called upon to consider the whole question. If, however, the hon. Baronet pressed his Motion to a division he should vote with him, although he must not be held responsible for the result of the division.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The few words which have fallen from the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) go far to explain the position in which we stand with regard to the Amendment—namely, that it is opening a very large question, which it would be difficult, if not impossible, to settle at the present moment. I do not say much of the effect of the proposal of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Lawrence). I believe its effect financially would be measured by about the sum of £240,000; and that would, of course, very materially diminish the surplus which I have left. On that ground alone I should feel a difficulty in assenting to it; but the real ground on which I advise the Committee not to assent to the Amendment is as follows—namely, that it is opening a very delicate and important question with which we are hardly at the present moment in a position effectually to deal. The hon. Baronet has reminded the Committee that when Sir Robert Peel originally imposed the income tax he exempted incomes below £150; but he did not also remind the Committee of the fact that some years afterwards the late Prime Minister, when Chancellor of the Exchequer, carried the tax to a lower stratum—namely, to the sum of £100 a-year, and that he did so on the ground that it was right to make a proper balance between the wage-receiving classes and the salary-receiving classes. Now, when you come to so delicate a question as that—as to where the wage-receiving class ends and the fixed income class commences—it is obvious you had better not touch the subject without full consideration;
 1058
 MR. WHITWELL  said, he was gratified at the large concession which had been made to the ratepayers in the reduction of local burdens; but he asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to do the same with respect to persons of small income who had to pay this tax.
 MR. CHAPLIN  suggested that it would be a great convenience, unattended by corresponding disadvantage, if the date were changed to the 1st of July next.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the Motion would not be pressed, as the Report of the Resolutions would afford a fitting opportunity for the desired discussion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  undertook to consider the suggestion of the hon. Member for Lincolnshire (Mr. Chaplin), and, if it could be acceded to, the Resolution could be amended on the Report.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, if this course were adopted it followed that he must move the Amendments which stood on the Paper in his name—namely—After "that on" insert '-'and after;" after "Excise shall," leave out "cease to;" after "be payable," insert
 "to local funds of counties or boroughs, and shall he applied by local authorities in aid of the expenses of maintaining turnpike roads of which the trusts have become, or may hereafter become, extinct." 1060
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the two grounds on which his hon. Friend had urged this Amendment were not very consistent with each other. His hon. Friend thought the Government were rather rash in throwing away this large sum of £480,000, which he said nobody had asked for, and which the revenue could hardly spare: but, at the same time, he did not propose to husband the sum for Imperial purposes, but to give it away to the counties for the benefit of turnpike trusts.
 LORD CHARLES BERESFORD  maintained that to repeal the Act would occasion great loss of life, as many guns would be used which would be far more fatal to the shooter than to the object aimed at. Tax collectors and other unpopular persons would not be safe, and many Members who now had seats would
 1062
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  suggested that, as there was a certain similarity between the tax on dogs and the gun tax, it would be well that the two imposts should be considered together.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the question had been raised in a manner which took the House by surprise. It had not been brought under his—the right hon. Gentleman's—notice very much before this evening. Under the circumstances, he should like to have more time to consider the matter. He did not look upon it as a fixed question.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  contended that the question was a fixed one. There was a great amount of damage done to crops through the want of firearms in the agricultural districts.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, that under a recent Act the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal was authorized to adopt such system of registration as he might consider feasible. Some statistics had been collected by way of experiment, and with a certain amount of success. In other parts attempts to collect vital statistics had been unsuccessful.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, that the borrowing powers of the Secretary of State under all Acts previous to the Loan Act of the present Session had been exhausted, with the single exception of the power contained in the Loan Act of last Session, by which he was enabled to borrow temporarily a sum not exceeding £2,000,000.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, in the trial of appeals against surcharges to the Income Tax some means can he devised by which the present system, which places in the hands of persons engaged in trade the power of investigating into the affairs of their immediate neighbours, may be avoided, and the appeals decided by some public officer unconnected with the locality?
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, Her Majesty's Government had recommended that a mark of distinction should be conferred upon Captain Glover in consideration of his services in the Ashantee War.
 MR. D. DAVIES , having been a working man at the age of 14, bespoke the indulgence of the House while he opposed the Motion of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Fielden). He had never had 6 d 1033 s s 1034
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to recommend that any mark of distinction be conferred upon Captain Glover in consideration of
 987
 MR. GOSCHEN : Perhaps the House will permit me to offer a few words in explanation after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. I understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that the other night I had practically admitted the truth of the statements made by the present First Lord of the Admiralty. I beg to say most emphatically that I admitted nothing of what the First Lord of the Admiralty said. ["Oh!"] Hon. Members will search the record of the debates in vain to find that I uttered one single syllable to depreciate the state of the Navy at the present moment. Three long speeches had been made from three different quarters as indictments of the Naval administration of the last five years. To those three speeches it was my duty to reply. One of those speeches proceeded from the right hon. Gentleman the present First Lord of the Admiralty (Mr. Hunt), and it was not only what he said, but the manner in which he said it, that impressed the House at the time. There was in it that ominous inuendo which was taken up by the Press next day. I did not think that I could in an hour's time refute all the statements made in the course of the evening. I knew that our vindication would come, and also whence it would come. I knew it would come from the front bench opposite, and from Her Majesty's Government. I knew that by the proposals which they would ultimately submit to the House the country would see that they were wrong in the inferences they had drawn from the speech of the First Lord of the Admiralty. And now we see that the whole of this "scare" which has frightened the public for these two days is a matter of about £100,000 on an expenditure of £10,000,000. If after an administration of five years when the Conservative Government come into office they think there are no greater errors to repair than that, I say that it is the best vindication of our conduct—better than if I had made a speech of two hours denying or dealing with every part of the First Lord of the Admiralty's statement. I thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the statement he has made to-night. Now, we shall be able again to discuss the Navy Estimates on a reasonable footing. 1021
 MR. STORER , in seconding the Amendment, contended that a Government which had been raised to office by the agricultural classes would, by the course which they had adopted by their Budget, give very grave dissatisfaction. He had heard the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr.
 1029 d s d s s 1030 1031 "Video meliora proboque; Deteriora sequor." Coningsby 1032
 MR. BUTT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Wheany application has been made by the Board or Fellows of Trinity College, Dublin, for a Queen's Letter, altering essentially the Statutes of the College: and, whether before the issue of any Queen's Letter, an opportunity will be given to the Senate of the University, or to this House, of expressing an opinion upon the proposed alterations?
 MR. J. BARCLAY  asked the Vice President of the Council, Whether the Government intend to bring in a Bill to carry into effect the recommendations of the Committee of last Session for amendment of the Contagious Diseases (Animals) Acts?
 MR. LEITH  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make a contribution from the Consolidated Fund towards the maintenance of lunatics will apply to Scotland; and, if so, whether it is to apply to lunatics confined in "the fatuous wards" of the poor houses as well as to those confined in lunatic asylums?
 MR. JOHN TALBOT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the Table of the House any Reports which have been received at the Home Office from Chief Constables or other police authorities as to the working of the Licensing Act, 1872?
 MR. WALTER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the several Reports of the Commissioners in Lunacy, and of the Council of Supervision of Broadmoor Asylum, suggesting the urgent necessity of adopting measures for the better classification of the criminal lunatics in that asylum; and, whether he is prepared to carry into effect all or any of the suggestions contained in those Reports?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was one of those who always looked upon the question under discussion as one which affected the consumer, and, regarding it in that light, he thought it required great consideration. When, then, he was asked on the present occasion whether the Budget of a Government which was new to office—for that was the real question before the House—should be rejected in favour of a proposal such as that of his hon. Friend (Mr. Fielden) to reduce a certain tax, or whether the House should enter upon the consideration of the financial scheme which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had submitted to it, he should certainly feel it to be his duty to vote in favour of taking the latter course. The Motion of his hon. Friend not only raised, in his opinion, in a most unpractical way the subject of the malt tax, but endangered the attainment of the object which he had in view. The matter was not one to be knocked about as in a game of battledore and shuttlecock, and it was impossible, he contended, that a Government which had been but a few weeks in office could deal with the question so as to be able to arrive with regard to it at any just determination. For his own part, he had always thought that spirits, wine, and beer were legitimate objects of taxation—perhaps none were more so. Wine had been dealt with in regard to reduction of duty within the last 20 years, but such had not been the case in respect to beer. He should vote against the Motion of his hon. Friend, because he really believed that instead of forwarding the object he had in view, the only effect would be to thwart it.
 MR. JOSHUA FIELDEN  wished, in reply to the observations of the hon. Baronet the Member for Wiltshire (Sir George Jenkinson), to say that it was he who had advised him to take the course
 1041
 MR. JOSHUA FIELDEN , in moving, as an Amendment, that "in the opinion of this House, the Malt Tax ought to be reduced," said, that in 1888 he pledged himself to his constituents that if returned he would do all he could to procure its repeal, but circumstances prevented more than one discussion on it and had there been more full discussion, it could have led to no satisfactory result, the late Prime Minister having never concealed his opinion that the tax ought not to be repealed. A division, however, might have shown the opponents of the tax, who were their friends and who were their foes. The position was now a different one. The present Ministry had been elected, to a large extent, by persons anxious to see this tax repealed. From such a Ministry those persona had a right to expect that some relief would be given them. The present Prime Minister had in 18.52 proposed to Parliament to repeal one-half of the malt tax; and in 1866, when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had stated to a deputation that he had never concealed his opinion that the malt tax was a bad tax, adding that they, the farmers, did not sufficiently support him in 1852. But, notwithstanding these facts, a Budget had been introduced by the present Ministry, the so-called farmers' friends, showing a surplus of £6,000,000, and nothing whatever had been given to
 1022 s d s s 1023 s s "Again, it is a tax on a raw material in its very rawest state; this 1 s Hansard s s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s 1024 s 1025
 MR. DILLWYN  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What course is adopted by the Treasury in cases in which the Auditor General is unable to certify to the correctness of payments charged in the Appropriation Account?
 SIR CHARLES MILLS  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, If all the borrowing powers of the Secretary of State for India under previous Acts of Parliament have been exhausted; and, if they have not, if he will state what is the amount which still remains?
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, that on meeting his hon. Friend that day he had bogged of him either not to bring on his Motion, under the circumstances—if the bulk of the party being against it—at the present moment; or, if he did so, he hoped he would not press it to a division, for the reasons he had already stated.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, he was content with the statement that the Government had turned over the question this year, owing to their having been only a short time in office, and because they thought that greater questions had to be considered; but he, nevertheless, thought the time had come when the question of the reduction of the malt tax deserved consideration. He thought there were very few persons who would not agree in the proposition laid down in the Motion—namely, that the time had arrived when the malt tax ought
 1040
 SIR JOSEPH M'KENNA  said, he thought the Amendment of the hon. Member put the issue before the House in a very simple form—namely, that, in the opinion of this House, the malt tax ought to be reduced. The hon. Member supported that view by the arguments the House had heard. He (Sir Joseph M'Kenna) ventured to say that in his opinion, for the reasons he would adduce, the malt tax ought not to be reduced. An examination of the operation of the malt tax would prove that, as a sumptuary tax it was one which rested very lightly on the class which alone it affected. He denied that it affected the farmers injuriously to any extent; but he was not about to go into that branch of the subject, which had been dealt with long ago. He believed there had been a public inquiry on the subject, and the conclusion arrived at, at the end of the inquiry, was that the farmers were not at all damaged by the tax in respect to the price of the articles they produced. His (Sir Joseph M'Kenna's) argument against the reduction of the duty stood on other grounds. The House should bear in mind that the brewers were manufacturers of alcoholic liquors to quite as great an extent, on the whole, as the distillers; and the House must treat this important subject consistently, and remember that the malt duty was practically the only tax which reached alcoholic liquors of a certain description. On an analysis which had been made long since—and although in a debate arising in this way he could not at once give authorities, still he pledged himself to the fact—it had been shown that whilst on whisky the duty was fixed at the rate of 10 s 1037 s s s s 1038
 SIR WINDHAM ANSTRUTHER  asked the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, If he has considered the amended Rules and Regulations for the government of County Constables issued from the Home Office by the late Secretary of State for that Department; and if he is now prepared to cancel the same, so as to enable the police to aid the authorities and officers in counties acting in the execution of the Public Health (Scotland) Act.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It seems not to be known so generally as it ought to be that any person who is surcharged under Schedule D may appeal to the Special Commissioners, instead of to the Local Commissioners.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, it was the duty of the Auditor General to make a Report as to any part of the public expenditure in which there had been any irregularity. Those Reports were presented to the House of Commons and were referred to the Committee on Public Accounts. That Committee took evidence and reported their conclusions to the House, and, as a general rule, the Treasury were guided by the opinions of the Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, his noble Friend (the Earl of Dalkeith) also had another Question of the same character upon the Paper. He could only say that the proposal of the Government of course extended to Scotland, as well as to England and Ireland, and in due time it would be their duty to present an estimate to the House. He thought he might only be misleading the public if he were to give an answer now as to the particular cases like that mentioned. The contribution, as a general rule, was intended to be for
 988
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the question of the malt tax alone was a pretty considerable one. The question raised, not unfairly, by the last speaker of the whole incidence of taxation on alcoholic drinks was one of such portentous magnitude that it showed them at once how impossible it would be to deal summarily with a subject of that kind. He hoped the hon. Gentleman who had made that Motion (Mr. Fielden) would take the advice of the hon. and gallant Member for West Sussex (Colonel Barttelot)—than whom no man had fought more consistently for the abolition or reduction of that tax—and not go to a division at so unfavourable a time for his proposition. A great many topics had been brought forward that night which were well deserving of attention. For instance, the Seconder of the Motion (Mr. Storer) had referred to the Papers on the system tinder which the duty on beer and malt was collected in foreign countries. He confessed he had not made himself master of those documents, as it was desirable they should do before dealing with that question. It would be almost impossible to go, and there would be no advantage in then going, into a real and exhaustive discussion of the merits of the malt duty and its relation to the different taxes on spirituous and alcoholic liquors. But he admitted that if they were treating the malt tax it would be necessary to treat it in connection with the duties on spirits, wine, and to a certain extent also on tea. There was a great force in the remarkable speech of the hon. Member for Cardigan (Mr. D. Davies), showing the mischief done to the interests of the country by the unfortunate prevalence of drunkenness and indulgence in spirituous liquors among many of our working people, and no portion of the question affecting intoxicating drinks could be properly dealt with without giving full
 1039
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had intended to lay a tax on plums preserved in sugar; but finding that the lax as proposed would only yield a revenue of £12 per annum, he had now to propose that the second Resolution should be negatived.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The tone of the remarks which my right hon. Friend has just addressed to the House, and for which I beg leave to tender him my most cordial thanks, has been so favourable that there is little occasion for me to say anything which might be strictly described as an answer. My right hon. Friend has told us, indeed, that although on certain points he differs from the views which I have had to express on behalf of Her Majesty's Government, yet that he is not prepared to challenge our proposals, or to support any of the Amendments of which Notice has been given. At the same time, my right hon. Friend, speaking with that high authority which necessarily belongs to him, has called attention to one or two points upon which, under any circumstances, I should have wished to say a few words to the House, and which, as he has touched upon them. I think it desirable to notice without delay. In the first place, my right hon. Friend has referred to a matter which, as he truly says, has been a subject of comment both in the House and out of it—I mean the Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure in the coming year, which, on the part of the Government, I have submitted to the House. I have been asked whether I can without inconvenience give any further information with regard to the Estimate that I have presented of the Revenue of the coining year. Now, I entirely accept the doctrine which my right hon. Friend lays down—that in these matters of estimates the responsibility attaches, exclusively attaches, to the executive Government of the day: and if, in the remarks I made last week, I spoke rather more fully than is usual of the estimates which had been placed in my hands by the permanent officers of the Revenue Departments, it was not because I wished in the slightest degree to cast upon those Gentlemen any of the responsibility which properly belongs to us, but because I was anxious it should not he supposed that having very recently acceded to of lice we had presented estimates the correctness of which we
 1007 1008 1009 1010 1011 1012 1013 1014 A laugh. 1015 1016 caveat 1017 1018 1019
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: After the fullest consideration I have been able to give to the subject, I do not see in what way I can meet the wishes of those sugar refiners whom my hon. Friend represents. If we postpone further the abolition of the duty on refined sugar we shall necessarily inflict a loss on a considerable number of persons who have made arrangements in the expectation that the duty is to come off on the 21st of May. I With regard to making a distinction between loaf and crystallized sugar, it is impossible to do so, in consequence of our treaties with foreign countries; and with respect to other means of compen-
 991
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he was very glad to hear the remarks of the hon. Member for Cardigan Boroughs (Mr. I). Davies). They were fortunate in having among them a man who, by industry, integrity, and honesty, had raised himself to his present proud position to represent that class of the community whose interests he had so much at heart, and whose wants and wishes he was so well able to enforce. He (Colonel Barttelot) concurred with the hon. Member that public-houses and drink were the bane of the country. With reference to the immediate question under discussion, he had consistently advocated the reduction of the malt tax. He brought forward the subject on the 14th of April, 1864, when he moved a Resolution that—
 "The consideration of the Duties upon Sugar be postponed until the House shall have had the opportunity of considering: the expediency of the reduction of the Duty upon Malt." 1035 s s s s s 1036
 COLONEL MAKINS  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether, looking to the great value of the Returns of the late Census in Bengal in reference to the present famine, the Government proposes to introduce into India a system of Registration of Births, Deaths, and Marriages?
 VISCOUNT SANDON : Considering the complicated character of this Question, the conflicting evidence respecting it, and the great and varied interests involved, Her Majesty's Government are not prepared, at any rate this year, to bring in a Bill on the subject. The proceedings of the Committee of last year, upon which the hon. Member bestowed so much labour, are a very valuable contribution to the consideration of the Question. The Lord President is giving the whole matter his most serious attention: but until the Government sees its way to a satisfactory mode of handling it, we do not think it right to engage to bring in a measure.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill to carry into effect the objects mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. He hoped, however, the House would allow him to ask them not to form a judgment on this matter, on account of what might seem to be unfavourable, but was really unavoidable delay, until they had seen the Report of the Friendly Societies Commis-
 1095
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  asked the President of the Board of Trade. What action has been taken with reference to extension works of Dover Harbour since August 1873; whether his attention has been called to a Private Bill of this Session, entitled "Dover Harbour Bill, 1874." promoted by the Harbour Board, which proposes amongst other things to acquire and annex the Admiralty Pier; and, whether such Bill has the sanction of the Board of Trade, the Admiralty, and the War Office Departments of the Government?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, with the sanction of the Treasury, I have placed myself in communication with the Master of the Horse's Department on the subject. No arrangement has yet been made, but I hope a satisfactory one Mill shortly be come to as to the amount of rent to be paid under the existing circumstances of the case by the Master of the Horse's Department to the Board of Works.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he had no objection to a Return being made of the number of convictions for the adulteration of intoxicating liquors which have occurred under the Licensing Act, 1872, in the Metropolitan district.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was sorry his hon. Friend should have made his Motion in the absence of the Attorney General, who was to have been present, but had been detained. All he could say was, he should bring the subject to the attention of his hon. and learned Friend.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, as the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge (Mr. Smollett) has been so fortunate, after a short period of delay and anxiety, as to find a seconder in my hon. Friend the Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley), I feel that the authority and weight of these two distinguished Gentlemen, combined in a formidable endeavour aimed principally, if not exclusively, against myself—of which I do not complain, for I think that was inseparable from the nature of the case—make it necessary for me to lose no time in replying to the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge. At the same time, I think it would have been a great assistance to me if the hon. Seconder of the Motion had pursued the practice which is usually, though not invariably, pursued in this House, and had disclosed the weighty motives and considerations that induced him to give the almost immeasurable advantage of his countenance to the proposal. Now, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge approaches this question under conditions which in some respects make it a little difficult to contend with him, for his claim amounts to nothing less than this—that he shall be permitted to state both sides of a contradictory proposition, and to take advantage, first of one, and then of the other. The hon. Gentleman says, for example, that it was an act of cowardice on the part of the late Advisers of the Crown to take any step which relieved them from the responsibility and the duty of meeting the late Parliament; and he then goes on to say that it was an act of audacity on their part to dissolve. Well, Sir, as the act which relieved us from our responsibility and the act which brought about the General Election were one and the same, it is for the hon. Gentleman to explain how he can call on the House to censure it both as an act of cowardice and as an act of audacity. That, however, is a matter of small im-
 1114 1115 "And further, that the precipitate appeal to the Constituencies consequent on such Dissolution is opposed to the spirit of the Constitution." 1116 1117 1118
 MR. GLADSTONE : Well, what was it then?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Suppose the usual circular had been sent out inviting the Members of the Liberal party to attend on the 5th of February, how would that tend to support the allegation of the hon. Gentleman, that we were prosecuting a plot for the purpose of deceiving our opponents, while we were enabling our friends to have the advantage of the knowledge we possessed?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Did we deceive our own friends and opponents alike?—for the charge of the hon. Gentleman rests on this, that we were deceiving those opposed to us, and seeking an advantage for our friends. If that were true, the usual circular would have been perfectly irrelevant; but besides being irrelevant it is absolutely untrue. No circular whatever went out from the Treasury, except that the circular was contemporaneous with the Dissolution. It is true a deputation, which had been arranged for three months before, waited on me a few days before relative to the county franchise; but on that occasion not a word was said by me as to the course that would be taken in this coming Session of Parliament. That was the second point of the hon. Gentleman. The third point was, that notice of a banquet, and of coming convivial engagements, was issued; and here again I must say I think the musty history of the hon. Gentleman is at fault. There were no invitations to a banquet, and no convivial expectations or hospitality whatever; and there is not a single shred or word of relevancy or accuracy in any of those three statements which the hon. Gentleman has made—and which he knows he has made—to sustain the grave charge that we proceeded to organize the Dissolution in secret, and that we deserve to be branded by him with the name of tricksters.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I want to know in what manner a circular of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire could be regarded in any way as a declaration of our intentions, or as an indication that we were in consultation with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire as to the issue of that circular. What I wish to point out is this—I repeat that the hon. Gentleman has made the charge that the Dissolution was organized in secret, and that those who organized it are to be branded with the name of "tricksters." I want to know whether the hon. Gentleman adheres, or does not adhere, to that name of "tricksters." Now, let the hon. Gentleman, if he likes, rise in his place, and give a plain answer to a plain question.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Then it comes to this—that when the hon. Gentleman thinks that he can gain some advantage by an explanation, he is perfectly ready to rise; but when he is called upon and is challenged upon this matter by men who are entitled to the same respect as himself, when he has addressed the offensive and insulting name of "tricksters" to those hon. Gentlemen, and is asked whether he adheres to his charge, he has has not the decency to say—he has not the manliness to say—that he does, but keeps an ignoble silence, and takes refuge under it from the consequences of his act. I, however, wish to meet an opponent in the fair and open field of discussion, satisfied that the issue there will be an issue favourable enough to justice and truth. I have now done with what may seem the most exciting and interesting element in this discussion, and I now proceed to deal with the terms of the Motion, which I may say appear prosaic, and do not present in any shape an adequate idea of the very high flight exhibited by the hon. Gentleman this evening. I hope, after a life spent in the public service, if I have exhibited any warmth in resenting such a charge as that we are tricksters, that that warmth does not require any very ample apology. Well, then, I come to the common sense of
 1121 The Quarterly Review 1122 1123 The Quarterly Review data 1124 1125 1126
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that most of the palaces mentioned in the Vote, such as Hampton Court, Kew, Bushey Park. &c., were places of public recreation and amusement. It was necessary that a considerable sum should be expended on Kensington Palace to keep in repair the apartments formerly occupied by the late Duchess of Inverness, and which Her Majesty had assigned to her daughter the Princess Louise, the Marchioness of Lorne.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  thought the state of the drainage of St. James's Park required attention in some respects, and wished to know what had become of the statue of Sir Robert Peel, which once stood near the house that statesman had occupied, but had lately been taken away.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  asked, whether the regulations transferring the care of Battersea Park from the park-keepers to the police had come into operation?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that the "historical monument" to which the hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Beresford Hope) had referred, was at present in Battersea Park. He believed one of his predecessors had had an idea of utilizing it as the facade of a sort of summer-house which was proposed for the use of the people. Suggestions would be made, he hoped, by persons of taste and the matter would not be lost sight of. With regard to Battersea Park, a strong feeling had been excited in the neighbourhood against the proposal to transfer the custody of the Park from the park-keepers to the police, and a very influential deputation had waited upon him in opposition to that course. The clergy of the district assured him that the utmost order had prevailed in the Park, and he had ascertained that the offences during the last 10 years had been almost  nil
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he had no information on the subject. He took the opportunity of mentioning that the right hon. Member for Clackmannan (Mr. Adam), his Predecessor in office, had requested him to express his regret that he was unable to attend the discussion on these Totes.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that it had been necessary to increase the force of police on account of there being a new road across the Park, which was open during the greater part of the night.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  promised to give his attention to the matter.
 MR. JAMES  said, he hoped the First Commissioner of Works would give an assurance that the unsightly projecting lantern in the Clock Tower would be removed before long. He would also suggest that some better means, by telegraphic communication between the House and other public places, might be devised by which Members might be informed whether the House was sitting or not.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he must repeat what he had said on a former occasion—that it was not intended that it should be permanent. An hon. Member had said that the object of the light was to save Members the trouble of coming down to the House after it was up, as in the event of a count. The real object, he thought, was to enable Members to stay away from the House. It was, however, under consideration whether it was feasible by other means, to lot hon. Members at a distance know when the House was or was not sitting, and his right hon. Friend the Postmaster General had suggested, for the convenience of
 1136
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that great anxiety was felt for the preservation of those casts, and steps were being taken with a view of arresting, as far as possible, the action of the atmosphere upon the metal.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, it was never intended that the Lobby should remain in its present state. It had been painted white, that that might be a base for a transparent coating, similar to that on the walls of the Speaker's house; but it had failed as a substratum, and would be removed, so that the stone would be restored to its pristine beauty.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, these were the Estimates which had been thought necessary for the proper supply of fuel and light for the Houses of Parliament. In reply to the hon. Baronet the Member for Wexford County (Sir George Bowyer), he wished to say that constant attention was being directed to find out, if possible, what could be done to arrest the decay of the stone on the outside of the building.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that without venturing to arrogate to himself any amount of superior taste, he respectfully dissented from the severe criticism which the hon. Baronet the Member for Wexford (Sir George Bowyer) had passed on the work of Sir Gilbert Scott. The design, as now erected, was not the same as that which had proceeded from the pencil of Sir Gilbert Scott, who had been obliged to alter it to suit the requirements of others. Sir Gilbert Scott had intended the elevation to be terminated by towers, the drawings of which he had himself inspected, and which, if erected, would have relieved the building from that weight of ornament which had drawn down the censure of the hon. Baronet. He was positively assured that the new offices would be ready for occupation by Michaelmas next. He regretted that there had been a delay in removing the hoarding in front; but it had been owing to the necessity of opening the roadway for laying down telegraph wires for the use of the public offices. He quite concurred in what the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir George Balfour) had stated with reference to his Predecessor in office. Since he (Lord Henry Lennox) had held the appointment he had had access, of course, to all the Papers, and they showed him that the right hon. Gentleman seemed, while in office, to have had but one object in view, and that was an earnest desire to do his duty.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he had every reason to hope that in the spring of next year the Galleries would be thrown open to the public;, and the national collections in Trafalgar Square and at South Kensington both safely housed in them. The office over which he presided and also the Home Office were fully alive to the necessity of increased vigilance against the possibility of fire., and as far as science enabled them to go in that direction the new National Gallery would be rendered fire-proof. He could make no promise with reference to the facade, as it rested with the custodians of the public purse, as he had before explained.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  promised that the subject should be inquired into, with a view to the defect being remedied if possible.
 GENERAL, SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  asked whether it would not be possible to sell the ordnance maps at a cheaper rate than at present, and yet cover the expense of their production?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he was not at all surprised at his hon. Friend rising when it was announced that a sum of £500 was to be asked towards the completion of the Wellington Monument. He could assure his hon. Friend that the first or second day he was in office his attention was directed to the most unfortunate business. He was told by those who knew what were the difficulties of the case that he ought to let it alone, so many of his predecessors had failed in bringing it to a successful issue, and trust to chance to do SO. That idea, however, he did not fancy at all, and he determined to take a particular course, because even if he failed, he should do so while walking in the footsteps of better men than him-
 1142
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he would not follow the hon. Baronet into the question of taste, upon which they might possibly differ. The design selected, however, was the design of Mr. Street, to whom the judges had awarded the prize. A prize had also been awarded to Mr. Barry; but as that gentleman had the erection of the National Gallery on his hands, he preferred that the matter should be left entirely to Mr. Street. While, he was happy to tell the hon. Baronet that it was far too late for the First Commissioner to attempt to reconsider the decision arrived at, even if he had the audacity to attempt it, he agreed with him that great loss had already accrued to the nation and the Treasury by the delay which had occurred; and that being so, he did not see how matters would be mended by holding the matter still further in abeyance and breaking a contract which had already been signed. The total sum which it was expected the new Courts of Justice would cost, was £826,000.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that nearly £30,000 had been expended on the Embassy House at Constantinople, and the total cost would be about £40,000 or £42,000. The cost of site, building, and furniture of the Embassy House at Washington was originally estimated at £31,000. The expenditure this year was estimated at £11,000, and that for next year at £12,000, which would complete the building.
 MR. MOORE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland. Whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in any measure relating to University
 1098
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that there was no occasion for the hon. Gentleman to apologize for bringing the subject forward, for he quite agreed that it was a fit matter to bring before the House. With respect to the question, he was only able to say generally that telegraphic communication in Ireland was, as a rule, rather ahead than behind telegraphic communication in Great Britain. With respect to the telegraphic communication of Mayo, it was almost exactly the same as in Great Britain; but respecting the particular barony of Erris, in the whole of that barony there was no Post Office having telegraphic communication attached to it; and he was afraid the reason was the very obvious one, that in the whole of the barony there was not a single town or village which had 1,000 inhabitants. It was true that Belmullet was a seaport town, which was 40 miles from any telegraphic station; but if the wires were taken there, it was doubtful whether the business would produce any adequate return. As to Ballycroy, an application had been already made to establish a Money Order Office in that town, and was now under the consideration of the Post Office in Dublin, and he hoped ere long to receive information upon the subject.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  asked what it was proposed to do with the
 1133
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether any progress was being made with the work in question? It was a painful, and in some respects a discreditable, fact that the completion of a work of so much public interest should be so long delayed. That delay was occasioned, he regretted to say, by the ill-health of the sculptor; but it was clear that the monument must sooner or later be finished, and the design of Mr. Stevens ought, if it were possible, to be carried out by Mr. Stevens. When and how that was to be done had hitherto been an insoluble mystery. He hoped his noble Friend the First Commissioner of Works was in a position to throw some light on the mystery.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that as Chairman of the Committee which satin a former Parliament on that question of the Foreign Office, he wished to observe that the Committee went very closely into the competition for the Foreign Office and for the War Office, and reported that Sir Gilbert Scott was the only competitor who was a prizeman for both those Offices. Accordingly, the then First Commissioner gave him the work of erecting the Foreign and India Offices. The circumstances attending the competition had been so complicated as to make it impossible to carry it out literally.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  asked for an assurance as to the speedy completion of the National Gallery. He trusted that rapid progress would be made with the work, and that a façade would be erected so as to combine the old and new structures into one. After the catastrophe at the Pantechnicon, he thought they ought also to receive some assurance that the new building would be really or approximately fire-proof. The present National Gallery was very far from being so.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he would not, in the presence of his hon. Friend who had just spoken, enter into the domain of taste lest he should say something which would shock him; but he wished to ask whether his noble Friend could give any idea when those buildings would be finished, and in use, and when the space in front would be laid out? He must add that it would be a disgrace to the country if the petty nests of small streets between the New Offices and Great George Street were allowed to remain permanently as they
 1138
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he was afraid that such hon. Members, himself included, as lived in far away parts, like Paddington, would only be injured and damnified by the change: for after 11 o'clock they would have to go down to Charing Cross to see if the House was sitting. He trusted, however, that something would be done to meet their case. He also hoped the noble Lord would take care that no other apartment in the Houses of Parliament would be disfigured as the Lobby had been, since it had been defiled with white paint. He should be supremely happy when the paint got tarnished and had to be scraped off.
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not know anything of the Motion to which the right hon. Gentleman refers. There will be the Report of the Committee of Ways and Means, then Supply, and at half-past 10 the Bill of which my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department has given Notice.
 MR. DISRAELI : I cannot place any restriction on the privilege of hon. Members to bring forward Motions on going into Committee of Supply, and there will probably be that and other Motions. I only gave the programme of the Government Business.
 MR. DISRAELI : They cannot be brought forward on Monday, but I understand they will be brought forward on Thursday.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is quite true that Her Majesty's Government have received the notice respecting the Suez Canal to which the hon. Baronet refers. With regard to the second part of my hon. Friend's inquiry—namely, whether I can without inconvenience to the public service state what course Her Majesty's Government propose to take under these circumstances for the protection of British interests—I will say that Her Majesty's Government are at this moment in communication with other Powers as to the course to be adopted, and when they have decided upon that course it will be made known to all parties concerned.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, since the presentation last Session of the Parliamentary Paper on Dover Harbour, correspondence has passed between the Government Departments on the subject of the proposed new works at Dover, but no conclusion had been arrived at sufficiently definite to enable the present Government to take up the subject practically at once, and they have accordingly decided that there is not time for them to deal with the question this year, and have notified this decision to the agents for the Private Bill introduced by the Dover Harbour Board. Parliamentary Notices were given both on behalf of the Government and the Dover Harbour Board for a Bill for the present Ses-
 1096
 MR. MONK  said, he did not concur in the recommendation of the hon. Gentleman, and thought he was justified in doing so, by the heavy charge which had been thrown upon the country, by the destruction by fire of the Embassy House at Constantinople. He asked for an explanation as to the sums already expended, and what amount would yet be required for the new Embassy House at that place?
 MR. MONK  asked for an explanation of the increase on one item, of £20,000 for public buildings in Ireland. He wished also for some explanation as to the new buildings for houses for warders, and for a Roman Catholic chapel at Spike Island.
 MR. NEWDEGATE , in reply, said, the usual intimation had not been given to him of the intention of the hon. Member to put this Question on the Paper. It was his intention to proceed with the Bill on the day named if he found it possible. If not, he would avail himself of any opportunity that might occur to proceed with the Bill.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he observed in this Estimate that there were a number of small charges relating to Scotland, and amongst others was a very small item for the Royal Observatory building in Edinburgh—namely, £15. The Observatory was of very great use scientific-
 1135
 MR. M'LAREN  complained of the great cost of lighting the Houses of Parliament, which amounted to £6,510, being at the rate of something like £40 a-day for the Session.
 MR. HORSMAN : Is the Report of the Committee on Ways and Means to be taken as the first Question on Monday? [Mr. DISRAELI: Yes.] Then that will give the hon. Member for Tam-worth an opportunity.
 MR. HORSMAN : We are told here, on what appears to be good authority, that an arrangement has been made with the Government that the hon. Member for Tamworth (Mr. Hanbury) is to bring on the Motion of which he has given Notice, which will give rise to a long discussion.
 MR. HORSMAN : I should like to know what will be the exact course of Business on Monday? Rumours on this side of the House say that another Motion respecting the Ashantee War is to be discussed before the Estimates come on.
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  disapproved perpetual change, and hoped that now the work was in hand it would be prosecuted forthwith.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, he should be glad of a similar explanation with regard to the Embassy House at Washington?
 MR. GOSCHEN : Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government will state, whether there is any chance of the Navy Estimates being on the Paper on Monday next, or whether they will be the first Order of the Day on Thursday?
 MR. GREGORY , in rising to call the attention of the House to the expense, inconvenience, and delay occasioned by the necessity of obtaining separate Probates of Wills or Letters of Administration for England, Scotland, or Ireland, in the case of persons dying possessed of personal estate in more than one of those countries respectively; and to move—
 "That in the opinion of this House, it is desirable that one probate or administration should confer a title to all personal estate within the United Kingdom," 1100
 MR. MELLY  wished to know, when the roadway in front of these buildings would be open to the public?
 MR. WHALLEY  wished to know, upon what principle the different districts were selected for the benefit of this expenditure? He thought Montgomeryshire had been hardly used in the matter.
 MR. WHALLEY : Sir, I second the Motion.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to say a few words to explain why he had seconded the Motion of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Smollett). After the clear statement of the hon. Member he felt that some explanation was necessary on the part of the right hon. Gentleman the late Prime Minister, whose course and conduct during the last five years had brought disgrace on the Liberal Party of this country in the eyes of Europe. During those five years he (Mr. Whalley) had more frequently voted against the right hon. Gentleman than any Member of the House, and at the General Election of 1868 he was the only one who foretold that the right hon. Gentleman would inevitably break up the Liberal Party. He was quite content with the fulfilment of this prophecy, and perhaps he ought not to have intruded on the attention of the House; but he felt bound to say that the hon. Member for Cambridge did not charge the right hon. Gentleman with being "atrickster." What the hon. Member said—and he fully agreed with him—was that the right hon. Gentleman had done "a distinct Parliamentary trick;" and after hearing the right hon. Gentleman he (Mr. Whalley) in a Parliamentary sense, repeated that there was no other phrase in the language which could describe it better. It was "a Parliamentary trick," for the purpose of obtaining—speaking always in a Parliamentary sense—a majority upon false pretences. The right hon. Gentleman distinctly alleged that he had a surplus of £5,000,000, and would take off the income tax. That was a false pretence; for if it were not, why did the right hon. Gentleman make the speech he did last night? The country acted rightly in dismissing the late Government, and depriving so many hon. Members on that side of their seats, for they had disgraced this country before Europe. He was glad to have the opportunity of protesting against the great inconvenience to which he had been subjected. It was all very well for the right hon. Gentleman to express regret for the inconvenience he had put some Gentlemen to who were not now Members of the House; but his was the greatest inconvenience of all. That Dissolution liberated him from prison. Being a Member of Parliament, he believed if he had continued in prison until the question of his imprisonment
 1128 Laughter 1129
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  contended that it was the duty of the Government to pro-
 1132
 MR. WHITWELL  asked whether certain lectures that were given to young gardeners were confined to those employed at Kew?
 MR. WHITWELL  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, When the Return to an Order of this House, dated July 13, 1871, with reference to Public Works (Loans), and ordered to be printed, August 10, 1872, may probably be expected to be delivered to Honourable Members?
 MR. WHITWELL  complained of the delay which had taken place in some districts in regard to the geological survey. It was most desirable that the results of the surveys should be speedily disseminated throughout the country.
 MR. DILLWYN  pointed out that in the Estimates there was an increase in the item of fuel for the Houses of Parliament, which was nearly £2,500 as compared with something over £1,700 last rear.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was opposed to anything that tended to idleness on the part of hon. Members, and he thought that such was the tendency of letting them know when the House was or was not up. With regard to the other observation of the hon. Member, everything so soon got soiled in London that the happiness of the hon. Gentleman would not be long delayed.
 MR. DILLWYN  thought a considerable reduction might be made in the Vote.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he saw a large item down in the Estimates for payment of the police on duty in the Parks. He was at a loss to know what the duties of the "Ranger" of the Park were. He considered the Vote for the Parks ought to be reduced much below the amount set down in the Estimates.
 MR. DILLWYN  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any arrangement has been made for the payment of rent for the occupation of Hampton Court Park, a Return, printed on the 4th of June 1872, having stated "that the conditions of this occupation are now under the consideration of the Lords of the Treasury?"
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he should make no objection whatever to any expenses incurred for keeping the palaces occupied by Her Majesty in proper order; but he did, to those not so occupied, and in keeping up which the country was put to great expense. As some of the present occupants would probably gladly leave them, if they were compensated in some way, he would suggest that arrangements might be made with that object in view. If, however, the present system were to be continued, he would suggest that it would be better to convert them into commodious lodging-houses than keep them as they now were. There was Kensington Palace, for example, which cost last year for repairs £1,156, but was put down in the present Estimates for £4,656. Then, again, there were Kew and Hampton Court, and other places, as regarded which he hoped his noble Friend would make some arrangements, so that they might be appropriated to public purposes.
 MR. DILLWYN  seconded the Motion.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that, remembering the history of the University Education (Ireland) Bill of last Session, he thought the House would hardly expect the Government would in the present Session be prepared to deal with the subject of University Education in Ireland.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that he would take care that proper accommodation was afforded for the Coast Guard in Ireland.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, that the usual answer to inquiries of this kind was, that the district in question was as well off as other parts of the Kingdom; but he submitted that was not a fair mode of dealing with the subject. The sparseness of population was not necessarily a sufficient answer respecting public accommodation, of which the Government had a monopoly, and the postal communications of Mayo were disgraceful to a civilized country. The wants of particular districts ought to be taken into account as well as population; but to set up some pedantic rule that there should be so many Post Offices to so many thousand inhabitants, was extremely unfair to thinly inhabited places, and was to conduct the Post Office services in a narrow spirit quite opposed to the national wishes. There were some parts of Mayo, within a short distance of the county of Galway, in which answers to letters could not be obtained in less than four days. Indeed, it was
 1131 s. d
 MR. SMOLLETT : I shall not rise in my place again.
 MR. SMOLLETT : I did not bring any such charges as the right hon.
 1120
 MR. SMOLLETT , in rising to call the attention of the House to the abrupt Dissolution of the late Parliament on the 26th January last, and to the precipitate General Election consequent thereon; and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the advice given to the Crown by Her Majesty's late Ministers to dismiss the last Parliament upon the 26th January last, in an abrupt manner and without any previous warning, at a time when both Houses had been summoned to meet for the dispatch of public business, and when no emergency had arisen for such a step, is censurable: and further, that the precipitate appeal to the Constituencies consequent on such Dissolution is opposed to the spirit of the Constitution," 1102 1103 1104 The Gazette 1105 1106 1107 coup d'état 1108 1109 The Times 1110 The Times 1111 1112 coup d'état The Gazette
 MR. SMOLLETT : No, I did not say so.
 MR. SMOLLETT : I said, deceiving not the opponents of the Government, but the country.
 MR. SMOLLETT : What I said was, that the usual circular had been sent out inviting the Liberal Members to attend.
 MR. CALLAN  asked the Member for North Warwickshire, If he really intends to proceed with his Monastic and Conventual Institutions Bill, which is set down for Second Reading for the 1st of May?
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the question of the silting up of the Woosung River has been frequently brought to the notice of the Chinese Government by nor Majesty's Minister at Pekin, and instructions were sent to Mr. Wade on the subject as lately as the 30th of January last. There will be no objection to produce the despatches upon the subject.
 MR. ROBERT REID  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any Communications have passed between Her Majesty's Minister at Pekin and the Chinese Government on the subject of the silting up of the bed of the river at Shanghai; and, if any such Communications have been received at the Foreign Office, or any Despatches on the subject, if he has any objection to produce them?
 MR. TIGHE , in rising to call the attention of the Postmaster General to the fact that out of twenty-five Money Order Offices in Mayo, fifteen only are supplied with telegraphic communication; that the barony of Erris, with a population of about 18,000, is without a Postal Telegraph Station; and to ask if he purposes extending wires to any of the Money Order. Offices in Mayo at present unconnected with the Postal Telegraph Department; and, if he intends establishing a Money Order Office at Ballycroy, in the county of Mayo, said, as a proof of the inconvenience caused by the existing state of circumstances, that there were places in Mayo where a Post Office Order could not be obtained or cashed without travelling a distance of 21 miles. He wished merely to call the noble Lord's attention to the matter in the hope that he would correct it. All he asked was that the people of Mayo, and particularly the people of the localities alluded to, should get the
 1130
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, he was not aware that there was a body of visitors whose duty it was to report to the Home Office as to the condition of the Edinburgh Observatory; but he would ask the Secretary of State to take care that in future due attention was paid to any communication which might proceed from that body.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, he would inquire into the matter without delay. He was not able to express an opinion as to whether the price at which the maps were sold was reasonable or not.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, that these new buildings were rendered necessary in consequence of some works which had been carried out at Spike Island.
 MR. W. H. SMITH : My attention, Sir, has been called to this Return, which I find has been ready for a long time; but a question has arisen as to the method in which the profits on the loans
 1097
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  complained that while in the metropolis these expenses were paid out of the Imperial Exchequer, in the provinces they had to be met by local taxation, and expressed a hope that next year, when the question of the re-adjustment of local taxation was brought forward, this matter would be set right.
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  complained that the district letter office in Fleet Street, just below Temple Bar, was not large enough for the amount of business transacted there, and that much inconvenience resulted in consequence.
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  expressed a hope that in any arrangements that might be come to for carrying out the object in view, the Temple district would not be forgotten.
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If Her Majesty's Government is prepared to introduce a general Bill giving powers to Joint Stock Companies to establish provident savings banks, and also provident funds for the superannuation of aged and infirm persons employed, powers analogous to those already given by special Clauses in private Acts of Parliament to some of the Railway Companies?
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he was of opinion that the matter, so far as it related to expense, should be properly brought forward in Committee on the Estimates. He quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman who brought the question under consideration, as to the expediency of having uniformity in the system for the whole of the United Kingdom, and he trusted that the Government would introduce a clause into some general measure, making the evidence taken in England applicable and sufficient in Ireland and Scotland. He had been always of opinion that the law on the
 1101
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he wished to speak very highly of the way in which the late Commissioner of Works had discharged his duties.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  explained that he had meant nothing derogatory to the reputation of Sir Gilbert Scott in the remarks he had made in reference to those Offices. He simply thought Sir
 1139
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  concurred in the view that the effect of the light was to encourage absenteeism. He wished to know if anything effectual had been done or was likely to be done to arrest the decay of the stone in the buildings of the Houses of Parliament?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, while these buildings were being erected regardless of expense, they were charged with a load of ornament which was perfectly useless, and which deprived them of all simplicity and true beauty. Somerset House, on the other hand, presented a noble simplicity, and there was no ornament whatever upon it. But in those now offices each story was a different building, and did not combine with the story above or below it.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that this was the most remarkable instance of mismanagement in the history of the country. Many years ago the ground was purchased, and all the buildings upon it cleared off. The interest upon the money had been lost to the country since, and it had also lost the rents of the houses. It would be interesting if a Return could be obtained of the total
 1143
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought that if, unhappily, Mr. Stevens' health prevented his completing the work, some one else ought to be associated with him for that purpose, He would be glad to know where hon. Members could obtain some idea as to what the Monument was to be like; and where the designs were to be seen. For his part, he feared that the work in question would share the fate of most public works of an ornamental character—namely, that no one knew anything of them while they were in progress, and every one decried them when they were finished.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had not suggested any lengthened delay. He believed that three weeks or a month
 1144
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he very much regretted that the Motion had been brought forward, because the question had been discussed at the beginning of the Session, and that was sufficient; while the discussion of the question at the present moment only served to produce feelings of acrimony which were to be regretted. He thought the hon. Member for Cambridge should withdraw his Motion. ["No, no!"] He thought, by doing so, the hon. Gentleman would show good feeling, and also that he did not mean to use those expressions which in the heat of argument he had used, and he thought the withdrawal of the Motion would come gracefully from him. The Motion having been made, he had contemplated seconding it, in order to afford the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich the opportunity of making the speech he had made in reply.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, If the Government have received the Notices referred to in a Letter in the "Times" and other journals of yesterday, and signed Daniel Lange, and addressed by him on behalf of Monsieur Lesseps to the President of the Board of Trade and also to the Lords of the Admiralty, in which he informs them that Her Majesty's Ships and all other vessels will be stopped and not allowed to enter the Suez Canal unless they first pay the extra charge demanded by Monsieur Lesseps; and, further, whether he can, without inconvenience to the public service, state what course Her Majesty's Government propose to take under these circumstances for the protection of British interests?
 MR. SPEAKER : Does any hon. Member second the Motion?
 SIR HENRY WOLFF  recommended the Government, as a measure of economy, in view of the gradual increase in rents in nearly all cities abroad, to extend the plan which had already been partially adopted of purchasing residences abroad, not only for the Ambassadors, but for the British Consuls at Foreign ports, and congratulated them on that policy being carried out at Vienna and Washington.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a Supplementary Es-
 1141
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Report of Ways and Means will be taken first, and afterwards the Motion to go into Committee of Supply.
 MR. CHARLEY  inquired as to the amount the New Courts would cost.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  in reply, said, that the question was founded on an error as to the facts of the case. The ammunition used was not found in the barracks, but had been obtained from a soldier who found it two feet under the sand near the butts. It was at that time very wet, but the prisoner got possession of it, dried it, and kept it a fortnight. There had, therefore, been no infraction of the general order, requiring private soldiers upon dismounting duty to return their ammunition into store, nor was it the practice of cavalry regiments to retain their ammunition when off duty.
 MR. HERBERT  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that on the recent occasion of the moving a troop of Horse Artillery from Ballincollig to Woolwich, and thence to Shorncliffe, a medical officer was sent to march with the troops from Bristol who was unable to ride, and that in order to accompany the troop one of the officers had to lend him a dog-cart; and, whether he is not of opinion that all medical officers attached to our mounted forces should be able to ride?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the medical officer referred to had no horse. He said he was not a rider, having only just been appointed, and as there was no very steady horse available, the commanding officer offered him a ride in his dogcart. As he accompanied a horse battery, it would not have prevented him exercising any of his medical functions if they had been required.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he had received all the Reports except one, and when that was received they should all be laid on the Table of the House. He was very anxious that the Reports should be laid before the House
 1178
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, his attention had been called to the matter, and he must refer the hon. Member to the Answer given by Lord Aberdare in April last year. Since that Answer was given three additional sub-Inspectors had been appointed, and although it was not the intention of the Government to appoint more Inspectors during the present year, yet they hoped by some modification of arrangements to make the matter very much easier for the number of Inspectors there were now. The whole matter of workshops, and their relation to factories, was also under the consideration of the Government.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he had received the Report a very short time ago, and immediately sent it to the printers. The Government had not had time to study that Report, or its recommendations thoroughly; as soon as they had, he should be happy to answer the Question.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he could not help regretting that no sensible impression would be made on the Debt by the proposals of the Government, more especially when it was considered how favourable was the opportunity that now presented itself of doing so. Perhaps the reason for it was that it was thought desirable some concession should be made to the hon. Baronet the Member for Maidstone (Sir John Lubbock) that one "ancient monument" should be preserved, and that one our National Debt. There was one danger which was always connected with the question of local taxation, which was that the amount had always been indirectly determined by persons who had no interest whatever in the payment of the taxes. Take the case of a lunatic asylum with 300 patients, for whom the Government would give 4 s. 1199
 MR. CHAPLIN  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for his concession. He thought the abolition of the horse duty would have a beneficial effect on the breeding of horses in this country, which at present was seriously on the decline. He hoped on a future occasion to bring the whole of the subject under the attention of the House.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in rising to move—"That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend the Laws relating to the sale and consumption of Intoxicating Liquors," said: I am quite aware of the great difficulty of dealing with the subject which I am now approaching on behalf of the Government, and if the Government do not meet in this Bill the wishes of the Committee, certainly it will not be for want of suggestions, for we have had them made to us by every section of the community. I am also aware of all those suggestions—some happy, and some otherwise—which were made to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But I think that those which have been made to the Government through my-
 1226 quot homines, tot sententiœ. 1227 Opposition Cheers. 1228 1229 1230 1231 1232 1233 1234 1235 1236 1237 1238 1239 1240 s., 1241 1242 "The constable may at all times enter on any licensed promises, and examine every room and part of such premises, and take an account of all intoxicating liquors found therein." 1243 1244
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : No. The whole of the houses in London will be closed at 12 o'clock at night on Saturdays.
 MR. G. H. WILSON  said, that the seaport which he represented (Hull) could be very injuriously affected by the proposals of the Government. They had fixed hours earlier than those named by the right hon. Gentleman. Both public-houses and beer-shops closed at half-past 10; and if he understood the proposal the uniformity would be destroyed, and public-houses and beer-shops would both be lengthened in their hours and yet be different. That he regretted very much, as the present hours gave general satisfaction. It was also the case with the port of Liverpool he understood. He hoped the proposals would not be carried as submitted.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I am rejoiced to find that although there seems to be considerable difference of opinion upon some points of the Bill, its main principle, which is that Parliament should fix the hour, meets with general approbation. I never expected there would be unanimity of opinion in respect to the hours. With respect to the double remission, one-seventh on the six-day licence and one-seventh on the early-closing licence, it is a matter for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say whether a publican could take out a licence for the double character of six days and of early closing, and thereby obtain the double remission. I have now. I think, touched upon every part of importance in reference to the Bill. With respect to its second reading, the Bill will be delivered to hon. Members in a few days, and we will put down the second reading for next week. ["Oh, oh!"] Nominally then, to-night I will put down the second reading of the Bill for Thursday week, but I will consult my Colleagues, and give the House early information on the subject.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  observed that he had no desire to hurry the Bill on. He wished the House to fix the hours on a full consideration of the matter.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that in his county (Perthshire) the dog tax was really intolerable, because it was necessary for a farmer to keep more than one dog to preserve the breed. Even at a time when everything was taxed, Mr. Pitt was careful to exempt shepherds' dogs, and he hoped his example would have influence now.
 LORD ESLINGTON  said, that in his county (Northumberland) the increase in the number of dogs had become a nuisance, and he had presented a very numerously signed Petition praying the House to take some steps to prevent the increase of mischievous and useless dogs, and complaining of the smallness of the tax. There was no animal that became such a depredator as a sheep dog, and when control over him was lost, he would worry sheep by the hundred. In fact, the superabundance of dogs was becoming a serious check upon the production of sheep.
 MR. PELL  said, he would take that opportunity of making a few remarks
 1183 d. d. d. d. 1184 s. d. d. 1185
 MR. MACDONALD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When he will be able to deliver to Members the Reports of the Inspectors of Mines for 1873, and, if the Reports could not be delivered earlier in the Session than they have been for some years past?
 MR. ORR-EWING : Sir, I would not have occupied the time of the House with any remarks on the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had he not, when speaking of the large revenue derived from spirits, and the possibility that in some future day the revenue from spirits might be reduced, made use of the following words:—
 "You may say that that is a very dangerous thing to rely upon. It is dangerous and not very pleasant, I admit, to rely upon the increase in the consumption of spirits as a source of future Revenue. It may also be said that the time may come when a check will come and that source of Revenue may fail you. I have asked myself—how is it that you expect this some of Revenue will fail, what will be the cause of its falling off, and why should not spirits be able to bear—and it is quite possible they might be able to bear—an increased amount of taxation, without diminishing the consumption. That is one source of Revenue which is still open to us upon an emergency;" 1192 1193 s. s. d. s. d. 
 
 England 6˙689 Gallons per head of proof spirits, as contained in whisky, gin, brandy, rum, ale, beer, porter, &c. 
 Scotland 4˙575 
 Ireland 2˙911 1194
 MR. ORR-EWING  said, he could not see that he gave the hon. Member any reason to suppose that he argued for a reduction on the spirit duty. His remarks had relation to the high duty on spirits, and the comparatively small duty on beer.
 MR. HAYTER  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether the outrage; reported to have been committed in Weymouth Barracks, by a soldier of the 75th Regiment upon his comrade on Sunday last, and respecting which the coroner's inquest have returned a verdict of wilful murder, was facilitated by the access of the perpetrator to the ball-cartridges kept in the barrack room; what were the circumstances justifying this departure
 1176
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS , in moving the adjournment of the debate, said, he did so because there were many hon. Members who wished to speak on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think that it would be much for the public convenience that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department should have an opportunity of bringing forward the Licensing Bill, in accordance with what has been arranged; therefore I shall not oppose the Motion for the Adjournment of the Debate, and the more especially so, because the subject now under discussion is one of great public interest, and is one upon which many hon. Members on both sides of the House wish to speak. Feeling it to be my duty to meet that wish, I am willing to agree that the debate shall be resumed on Monday next.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am not surprised that my hon. Friend the Member for St. Ives has given Notice of this Question, for I know it is a question which is in many mouths. The point is, to ascertain the present amount of the unappropriated balance of the proceeds from the disendowment of the Irish Church and who has the control of it. Now, I am sorry to say that there is no balance, or, rather, no unappropriated balance of the proceeds from the disendowment of the Irish Church. The account is the other way, and the items are so important and interesting that I will take this opportunity of stating them to the House. Unfortunately, the debt due on the part of the Commissioners amounts to no less than £9,700,000. Of this £8,400,000 is owing to the Commissioners for the reduction of the National Debt, and £1,800,000 is due to the Representative Church Body. After the Notice of inquiry was given by my hon. Friend, I asked for some information in order that, having learnt this was the state of the unappropriated balance. I might ascertain what would be the future result of all these proceedings. I am told it is estimated that this debt of £9,700,000 with interest, the annual charge in respect of which is at present £240,000, will be paid off in about 17 years, and when that time shall have arrived and the liabilities of the Commission shall have been discharged, it is calculated that the capitalized value of the Terminable Annuities which will then be outstanding, will amount to about £5,000,000 sterling. This last-mentioned sum when realized will constitute the surplus to be disposed of by Parliament.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, the subject of compulsory pilotage is under the consideration of the Government, and I hope it may soon be dealt with. I will communicate with the hon. Member when the question is more matured.
 MR. D. DAVIES  thought 10 o'clock in the country would be late enough for public-houses to keep open, and urged that if they were kept open later the working classes got so much less sleep, and were not so well able to get to their work in the morning. He thought the extension of hours in London was desirable, and had nothing to say in objection to the proposal; but understanding the country places in Wales, and sympathizing with the working men, he objected to lengthen the hours of the public-houses and beer-shops.
 MR. BACKHOUSE  said, he approved the aid proposed to be given by the central authority in the case of lunatic asylums; but he wished chiefly to call attention to the subvention in aid of the police rate. With regard to the police force, there was a minimum of local control as compared with the expenditure authorized for other local purposes. Virtually, the state and efficiency of the police depended upon the central authority. When the Government subvention amounted to one-half the expense of the force, he thought its efficiency should be thoroughly investigated. There might be fewer superior officers compared with the number of men in the different districts, and the whole charge and management of the police, he thought, might be taken by the Central Government. Its efficiency would in that way be much improved. The additional means which might be requisite to carry out his proposal would be supplied by a small tax on lands held by corporate bodies, who were free from succession duty, calculated at 2½ per cent of the rental, or 6 d. 1186
 MR. E. DAVENPORT  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, What is the present amount of the unappropriated ba-
 1175
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the state of the Coolies at Mauritius is ready, and when it will be laid upon the Table?
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  said, that when hon. Members talked of the destruction of dogs, he thought he heard a shudder from the invisible regions of the House. In his opinion the tax on dogs ought to be increased, and their owners should be compelled by law to put collars on them, with their (the owners') names inscribed thereon. He approved of the abolition of the duties on horses. He thought the Government would find its reward in the cheaper rate at which they would get troop horses for the cavalry, as the abolition of the tax would most certainly lead to a large increase in the breeding of horses. On the whole he approved of the Budget. It was impossible for a Ministry called into existence at such a short notice to
 1201
 MR. BENTINCK  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the attention of the Government has been called to the Law on Compulsory Pilotage, under the operation of which redress cannot frequently be obtained for damage done by ships in charge of Compulsory Pilots; and, whether the Government propose to introduce a Bill for abolition of Compulsory Pilotage?
 MR. CUBITT  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he will state the total amount of the National Debt on the 1st April 1874, distinguishing between the amount of the Funded and Unfunded Debt and the capital value of
 1177
 MR. MELLY  regretted that the Government had felt it necessary to introduce a measure to unsettle what had been passed with much agreement on both sides of the House. He had nothing to complain of in the very lucid statement made by his right hon. Friend. He extended the hours of the metropolis for public-houses to 12.30, leaving the beer-
 1245 1246 "That, in the opinion of this House, no measure for the regulation of the sale of Intoxicating Liquors will be satisfactory which affords increased facilities for drinking, and which deals unequally and unfairly with a considerable branch of the liquor trade."
 MR. STORER  hoped some conclusion would be arrived at so as to settle the  bonâ fide
 MR. TREVELYAN  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department,
 1181
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that considering the evils which the right hon. Gentleman described as attending want of uniformity in closing public-houses, he failed to see how he had persuaded himself to propose no less than six or seven different hours, all of which might in some places be in force within a very short distance. But he did not rise to criticize the proposals of the Government, but to ask the right hon. Gentleman to give as long a time as he could between the introduction of the Bill and its second reading, so that its provisions might well be considered by the magistrates and all who took an interest in the question
 1252
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, considerable progress had been made with the Report, (by far the greater part of which has been completed by the Commissioners), when Mr. Frere's sudden and very severe illness interrupted his labours, which, it is feared, he will not be able to resume for some time. Looking at Mr. Frere's great experience in India and in British Guiana, it is very much to be desired that Her Majesty's Government should have the advantage of considering his recommendations on the numerous questions which will arise out of the Report; and although the other Commissioner, Mr. Williamson, is fully competent to complete the Report and to make valuable suggestions as to future legislation, it is considered expedient to submit to some further delay in the hope that Mr. Frere may be able to resume his work. The Report will not be laid on the Table, or otherwise published, until it has been fully considered by Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, the facts of the case are, that negotiations are now in progress between the Government of the Dominion of Canada and the Province of British Columbia, arising out of the proposal by the Dominion Government of certain modifications of the provisions of the contract as to the construction of the Pacific Railway. No decision has yet been arrived at, and it would, therefore, be incorrect to speak of the refusal of Canada to carry out any of the provisions of her contract. Any question as to the validity of the guarantee would only arise in the event of alterations or modifications in the contract being adopted by the Dominion Government.
 MR. J. HOLMS  said, it must be plain to every hon. Member that the question of the Ashantee War was one which had caused the people of this country very considerable anxiety, and in proportion to that anxiety was the interest they now felt as to what our future policy would be with regard to the Gold Coast. Although he did not concur in the Motion of the hon. Gentleman who had addressed the House, he was glad that the subject in question had been so early, and so ably, brought before them by him as it had been. For himself, he would rather urge upon the Government to leave the Gold Coast as soon as practicable, and the entanglements of war could be got rid of; but, at the same time, no reasonable man would expect that it should be left all at once. He felt the question had been raised in rather an unfortunate manner, because it was of so grave a nature that, in his opinion, a division should be taken on it as a substantive Motion instead of on the Motion that the Speaker leave the
 1215 1216 1217 1218 d., s. d. d. d. 1219 1220 1221 s. d. 1222 It should be distinctly explained to the Elminas that Government had no intention to compel them to accept British protection." "You cannot be unaware that the recent war with the Ashantees was a subject of the greatest regret to the Government, that the recurrence of such a war would he viewed as a great calamity, and that the employment in it of British troops would be wholly against the policy of this country," 1223 1224 1225
 MR. J. G. HUBBARD  said, he was happy in bearing testimony to the frank, clear, and satisfactory statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and it was the more satisfactory because the Budget was provisional in some of its more important points. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), in commenting upon the reduction of 1 d. d. 1187 1188
 MR. LOCKE  said, the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Melly) had complained that there should be different hours of closing in different places, but common sense dictated that such should be the case. It was perfectly absurd to say that in the metropolis, with between 3,000,000 and 4,000,000 inhabitants, the hours of closing should be precisely the same as throughout the whole country. When the matter came before the Committee, it could be decided what hours would be applicable to towns with given populations. There was one thing he rather regretted, and that was that the hour of 1 was not fixed for the time of closing in London instead of half-past 12. He was greatly pleased to find that his hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle (Sir Wilfrid Lawson) had nothing particular to complain of, excepting that the publicans set their backs against everybody. They knew the hon. Gentleman was a kind-hearted person; and although he would not allow licensed victuallers to retail wines and spirits, yet he (Mr. Locke) had been told that he was hospitable to his friends to a large extent. However, from what his
 1253
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked if the man who took out a six-day licence, and also took out an early-closing licence, would have two-sevenths of the amount remitted to him, as in either case he would have a remission of one-seventh?
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What are the existing facilities for the amalgamation of Poor Law Unions when desired by the ratepayers, and if any applications for amalgamation have been made to the Local Government Board of Ireland or to the former Poor-Law authorities?
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, there was no harm whatever in drawing a distinction which had some justification. It should be remembered that licensed victuallers' houses were established in a great many instances for the purpose of eating as well as drinking, while beer-houses, as the name implied, were intended for drinking beer only, and notwithstanding the Utopian view advanced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the City of Oxford (Sir William Harcourt), every person who resided in the country knew full well that frequenters of beer-houses were, speaking generally, not the most desirable section of the community. He regretted the hon. Member for South Durham (Mr. Pease), whose opinions were entitled to respect and consideration, thought the country would view the measure with alarm. He (Mr. Talbot) could not but think that on the whole, it would be taken, as it deserved, as a moderate measure. There ought, in his opinion, to be a further classification in population. There ought to be some distinction between places of 2,000 and towns of 10,000. Many persons did not want a late hour. Publicans were in the country often engaged in trade or work, and had to rise early, and one of them had told him (Mr. Talbot) that early closing was the greatest boon he ever enjoyed. The time of closing for small places with a population under 2,000 ought to be 10 o'clock instead of 11 o'clock. The hours of closing on Sundays, as he understood the Bill, were to remain the same as they stood under the present Act. If he should find it necessary when the Bill went into Committee he should move Amendments in the direction he had indicated. Before he sat down, he should like to know if it was intended to alter the present hour for closing on Saturday nights.
 MR. WHITWELL  hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be unduly swayed by the bad character given to the dogs of Northumberland, which could hardly be the genuine Scotch collies and the well-known sheep dogs of Northumberland and Westmoreland. There were many farmers in the hilly districts of the country who would not feel the remission of the horse duty anything like so great a relief as they would the exemption of dogs.
 MR. J. R. YORKE  regretted that a better opportunity had not been given to the hon. Baronet the Member for North Wiltshire (Sir George Jenkinson) to discuss the question of turnpikes the other night. That subject of local taxation, with respect to which there existed great ground of complaint, had been well thrashed out by discussion in the Chambers of Agriculture, which were rapidly becoming provincial Parliaments, and he trusted the Government would turn their attention to it. It was obviously impossible to get this country to assent to a system of  octroi 1198
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, he believed the existing law afforded all necessary facilities for the alteration of the boundaries of Poor Law Unions in Ireland if the consent of the Local Government Board could be obtained to any proposed change of the kind. A general re-arrangement of this kind was made in 1819–50, and since then various applications had been made to the Poor Law Board to exercise its functions in the matter. Each of these applications had been considered on its merits, and the hon. Member would find a good deal of information on the subject in the Reports of the Poor Law Board for 1866 and 1867. An application of the kind was still pending.
 MR. LAMBERT  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, When the relief promised towards lunatic and police rates will be available?
 MR. COOPE  gave Notice that he would take another opportunity of bringing the subject under the consideration of the House.
 MR. COOPE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, in his measure to relieve Local Taxation, he is prepared to make any provision for the hardship inflicted on the counties of Middlesex. Essex, and Kent by the large number of Lunatics sent home from India, who, being landed in the Thames, were afterwards placed in the asylums of those counties?
 MR. M'LAGAN  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any independent survey has been made, by orders of the Government of this country, of the deposits of guano on the several islands belonging to the Peruvian Government and other islands in the Pacific Ocean; and, if so, whether he has any objection to publish the result of such survey?
 MR. FOTHERGILL  said, that one consideration seemed to have been lost sight of by every speaker, and that was justice to the publican. A stigma had been attached to the vocation, and the result was, that the best men who would otherwise be got in London did not enter on it. Looking, however, at the temptations to which they were exposed, it was, he thought, remarkable that they so seldom went wrong. He considered that the measure propounded by the right hon. Gentleman accorded with his practical good sense, and that if he were able to carry it out, its effect would be to introduce the best class of men into the trade. He, however, regretted that a difference was made in the hours for closing beer-shops and public-houses, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman might be induced to modify that part of his Bill, for as it stood, it was immeasurably absurd.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the threatened closing of the Suez Canal has been averted by the good sense of M. de Lesseps, who has submitted under protest to the legal decision of the Sultan. There is, therefore, no reason to think that the ordinary course of traffic will be interrupted.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, strictly speaking, no independent surveys have been made by orders of Her Majesty's Government of the deposits of guano in the islands of the Pacific; but reports upon the subject have been forwarded to the Foreign Office by the Admiralty. These Reports have just been printed with the intention of sending copies to the newspapers and various agricultural societies, and under these circumstances probably the hon. Member will think there is no occasion to lay them before Parliament.
 MR. HANBURY , in rising to call attention to the Report of the Committee which inquired into the condition of our West African Settlements in 1865; and to move—
 "That this House is of opinion, that, in the interests of civilization and commerce it would not now be desirable to withdraw from the administration of the Gold Coast," 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214
 MR. EARP  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If it will be convenient to bring in the Bill relating to Friendly Societies before Whitsuntide, at which time members of such societies hold important meetings, affording favourable opportunities for considering any proposed changes in the Law affecting their interests?
 MR. W. STANHOPE  asked. What description of lunatics would participate in the grant?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not press on the second reading so early. There were many towns now closing at 11 that would not like to close at half-past 11, and which should have an opportunity of considering the Bill.
 MR. HEYGATE  trusted that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not pay attention to suggestions for the remission of the dog tax. The only fault of that tax was, that it was too small, and fostered the existence of a vast number of useless animals, which did an infinite deal of mischief in a small way, and were a nuisance to all their neighbours. He had received several letters complaining of useless dogs, which went about barking at people's heels, and besides did an infinity of mischief, and he knew a village of some 500 inhabitants in which there were between 70 and 80 dogs, which roamed about the country to the great annoyance of the neighbourhood. A suggestion had been made to him whether it would not be possible to double the dog tax, but to grant exemptions in favour of shepherds' dogs and other useful agricultural dogs, just as there had been an exemption in favour of agricultural horses, and he thought it a reasonable proposition. With regard to the Budget he regretted that his right hon. Friend had not adhered to the ordinary mode of calculating the revenue which gave a surplus of £4,000,000 only. His estimated addition of £1,500,000 from continuing increment, and another £500,000 from repayment of advances, was novel and untried; and with a falling trade this was not the year to make a new experiment of that kind. As a mere matter of calculation, he dared say his right hon. Friend was quite right in the estimated increase of the Revenue; but, in spite of the sanguine expectations of the Revenue officers, looking to the present condition of the trade of the country, he doubted the propriety of anticipating it this year, and feared that in the end it might be necessary to re-impose taxes which had been prematurely taken off, while if the estimate were realized, it might very well be applied in reducing the National Debt, which still amounted to
 1200
 MR. RATHBONE  said, he had listened to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman with great regret, because he thought the changes he proposed to effect in the present law would be most unfortunate. The licensed victuallers had had a monopoly in which the interests of the public were ignored, and the improvements which had been secured were worth retaining. He had no doubt that the endorsement provisions had a considerable effect in the improvement of the conduct of the houses to which reference had been made. He thought the alteration proposed in respect to those endorsements was an injurious one, and would result in strengthening the vast and gigantic monopoly of the liquor trade.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he would not attempt at that hour of the night to enter upon any discussion, or to criticize the details of the Government measure; but there was one point on which the right hon. Gentleman laid considerable stress—namely, the distinction—he might say the unfounded and unfair distinction—which was drawn between the houses of licensed victuallers and beer-houses. Beer-houses as a class were not less respectable than public-houses. No doubt there were discreditable beer-houses and discreditable licensed victuallers' houses, but to stamp the former as a class to be put in a different category from that of the licensed victuallers seemed to him most indefensible. The right hon. Gentleman had pointed out the injustice and unfairness of exempting from the existing Act licensed victuallers who carried on their businesses in the neighbourhood of the theatre, and he pointed out that circumstance as one of the reasons for the amending Bill he had introduced. So it was with regard to exceptional treatment for the higher class of hotels. Very fairly, the right hon. Gentleman objected to any distinction between classes of houses for the rich and the poor. He (Sir William Harcourt) could see no fairness in saying that the time of closing for the licensed victuallers should be fixed at one hour, while the beer-houses were to close at another. One of the practical consequences of that would be, that when people left the beerhouses, they would proceed direct to the licensed victuallers' and procure spirits there. It seemed to him to be a sort of class legislation which recognized the aristocracy of spirits as against the democracy of beer, and that was a view he felt by no means willing to accept. He had always protested against the unfairness of the treatment to which beerhouses had been subjected, more especially as regarded their valuation. This
 1249
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  hoped that the Bill would be printed immediately, and that it might be circulated throughout the country, so that it might be discussed and public opinion taken upon it. He also wished to call attention to the fact that in several large towns there were working men's clubs of one kind or another which met at public-houses to transact their business, and that as they could not assemble until late in the evening they ought to have time to go through it satisfactorily. He also thought that some provision should be made for the supply of refreshments to
 1254
 MR. DALRYMPLE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Whether his attention has been called to the fact that the number of Inspectors
 1179
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Canada Pacific Railway Guarantee of last Session is avoided by the refusal of Canada to carry out some of the provisions of her contract?
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Melly) had made unfavourable comments upon the measure proposed, in which he could not join. He thought the Bill would do much to secure the uniformity required, and would meet the wants both of the publicans and the public. There had been need of some extension of the hours, and he did not think the boon would be abused. He knew it was a difficult subject, but he would reserve what he had to say until the second reading.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, that the question of local taxation was by no means of a novel character, and had received a great deal of attention during the last quarter of a century. It was, however, in an unsatisfactory state, not only as respected the amount of taxation, but more especially as regarderd the management of the expenditure. From the numerous boards and parties mixed up in the affairs, many of whom were irresponsible for raising the funds and only charged with the duty of expending money levied by others, the natural result followed of waste and confusion in the expenditure of the people's money. He could not agree with what had been said in favour of increased advances from the Consolidated Fund in relief of the local ratepayers. He viewed this aid from the Imperial Treasury to be a dangerous precedent, and one that would lead, as it had done, to carelessness and extravagance in spending. He considered it of great importance to improve the control over all local taxation and expenditure, and trusted that the Home Secretary would examine the Bills brought in in 1837 and 1849 by Mr. Hume, and especially Mr. Milner Gibson's Bill of 1852 upon County Financial Boards. The whole amount now contributed, or proposed to
 1189
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the important news respecting the yielding of M. de Lesseps on the subject of the traffic of the Suez Canal was correct, as stated in  The Times
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE  thought the right hon. Gentleman had failed to produce a measure which would be satisfactory to anybody. Very few persons found fault with the hours of closing fixed by the Act of 1872, and that, he might say, applied to the persons engaged in the trade as well as the general community. The hours of closing at 12 o'clock in London and 11 in the country, with 10 for the smaller places, were late enough for all proper purposes. To extend these hours as the right hon. Gentleman proposed, instead of doing a public good, would, in his opinion, create a great mischief. Experience showed, that earlier hours under the Act of the late Government produced greater quiet. They had abundant evidence of the fact, and he must express his regret that, with such a
 1248
 MR. PEASE  looked upon the proposals of the right hon. Gentleman as a retrograde step in legislation, and would reserve to himself the right of opposing, on the second reading. Some portions of the scheme he had heard with sorrow, and he believed the country would read them to-morrow with alarm. He regretted that nothing was proposed calculated to bring houses which were doing much harm, more fully under the control of the magistrates than they were now. In case this Bill ever came to a second reading, he should move, in Committee, further restrictions with regard to grocers' licences, and to give the magistrates more discretion over those houses in which the drink had to be consumed off the premises. Altogether, the statement had produced a most unfavourable impression upon his mind, and he trusted that in several particulars the right hon. Gentleman might see it his duty, in the interest of the country, to re-consider his plan.
 MR. PEASE  concurred in the agreeable criticisms on the Budget which they had recently heard from the right hon. Gentleman the late head of the Govern-
 1195
 MR. PEASE : And therefore that the duty should be increased on beer. He commended this argument to his hon. Friend the Member for Derby (Mr. Bass). He would congratulate his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the views which he appeared to entertain on this question. The feeling of the country and the late debate had given him possession of the duty on the malt for as many years as he chose to keep it, and no doubt he would keep it with satisfaction to himself and the country at large. Apart from this point, the object of his rising was to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to one question of local taxation which he might have to adjust, and that was the hardships falling on agricultural interests in neighbourhood of towns. Local taxation was falling very heavily on towns at the present moment. There were sewage works going on, building, and other local improvements. It was, therefore, a difficult matter to put more taxation on these towns; but whilst those large works were going on in towns, there also happened to be changes in their vicinity, such as the abolition of all the turnpike gates, laying greatly increased rates, sometimes amounting to 2 d. d. 1196 1197
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he was sorry that the Government had not devoted a greater amount to the relief of local taxation, for he thought this was a time when the agricultural interest might suffer very much, not only from the price of labour, which was high, and still rising, but from the Unions, which would paralyze, if continued, the whole system of agriculture in the country. Many burdens were about to be put on the agricultural community with reference to local government and sanitary improvement which it had not hitherto felt, among which were the maintenance of the highways, and the Sanitary Acts which were still in the infancy of their operation. The Chancellor of the Exchequer slightly alluded to the labourer's dwelling. That was a question of the greatest importance, for it was only in a few counties, and certainly not in that part of the country which he had the honour to represent, that cottages were in a fit state for the labouring population, and he expected that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have grappled with that question. The erection of suitable cottages was a very expensive affair. There could be no return for the outlay, and many estates were so tied up that it was impossible for the tenant for life to raise a fund for the erection of suitable cottages. Acts had been passed to facilitate their erection, but the whole machinery was so expensive that it had not had that effect which was absolutely necessary for the health and prosperity of the labouring class. He thought it was absolutely necessary that the provisions of the Sanitary Acts should be put into operation, so as to shut up the cottages which were not fit for human habitation. Moreover, if cottages were not built in which labourers could live in decency and comfort, it was natural they would become members of Agricultural Labourers Unions and listen to agitators who would tell them that if they emigrated they would soon become rich, and owners of property, and offer them inducements to separate themselves from their employers, It would be a bad day, in his opinion, for English agriculture when the relations between the labourer and the farmer, or the landlord, should be regulated simply by commercial consideration. He was sorry that another year would be allowed to pass before the question of local taxa-
 1191
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, the intention of the proposal he made the other day, was
 1182
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Report of the Commission on Friendly Societies is now in the hands of the Queen's printers, and I am informed it will be in the hands of the public in the course of about a week. Her Majesty's Government have not yet had an opportunity of considering any Bill on the subject, though I hope a measure will be ready for introduction soon after Whitsuntide. I am aware that Whitsuntide is an important time for meetings of friendly societies, and I wish to point out that the Report contains all the recommendations of the Commission, and in a form very convenient for consideration at those meetings.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, no doubt the question was one of great importance, especially to the three counties mentioned, which were somewhat accidentally charged with the expense of those lunatics. The matter, however, was one which was outside the proposals made in the Budget, but it was engaging the attention of the Government, and he could at present say nothing upon it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could assure the House that sheep clogs and taxed dogs generally had given him more trouble than almost any other subject. To settle a proper system of taxation on dogs, taxing those that ought to be taxed, and not taxing those that should not be taxed, was something like the attempt to balance an egg on its end, which even Columbus could not do till he broke the egg. A suggestion had been thrown out the other evening that the tax might be treated somewhat as a local tax; and he then said he would consider it with the gun tax, and see whether there was any possibility of dealing with the two together. With regard to the other questions he did not mean to detain the House after the rather desultory but useful and interesting conversation which had been held; but he must express his obligations to hon. Gentlemen for the favourable way in which they had spoken of the proposals in the Budget. He could only say with reference to the gloomy predictions of his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Heygate), he still hoped that things would not be so bad as he appeared to anticipate. For himself, he must say he should not have been acting honestly by the House, if he had taken the Estimates lower than he had done, and he should have been committing a pious fraud, had he pretended to believe that the surplus would be smaller than he really believed it would be. With regard to what had been said by his hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Mr. Hubbard) on the subject
 1202 1203
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the total amount of the National Debt on the 31st of March last was £779,294,271; the gross amount of the capital of the Funded Debt was £723,514,005; the capital value of the Terminable Annuities was estimated at £51,300,666; and the Unfunded Debt amounted to £4,479,600.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON : Mr. Raikes—The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cross) has not met with much approbation for the Bill which he has just introduced. Nobody has, so far, said much in its favour, except the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney). But I
 1250 1251
 VISCOUNT NEWPORT  thanked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the remission of the horse duty, which would be a boon to a great many persons, and would eventually tend to the improvement of the breed of horses. But then he wished to call attention to an effect which the remission might have. One of the inducements to young farmers for entering the Yeomanry had been the exemption from the horse duty; but now when there would be no longer a duty of the kind, it was feared they would not be so eager to join the service. He would ask the Secretary of State for War to consider whether some other inducement could not be held out to them to do so.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce such a measure this Session. If any officers were appointed to ascertain the causes and pre vent the frequency of Fires, they must necessarily be paid out of the rates, and it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose an addition to the rates for that purpose. The whole question was so much mixed up with the appointment of a Public Prosecutor that until the Judicature Commission had reported on that point, this, and other similar questions, could not be considered by the Government.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he did not object to the second reading, as it was intended that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. It must, however, he clearly understood that the question as to whether candidates should pay their own expenses was not to be imported into the inquiry of the Committee upstairs.
 MR. BUTT  said, the proposal took him by surprise. However, he accepted the proposal, though with considerable reluctance, as he did not see what there was to be referred to a Select Committee. The measure involved no legal technicalities whatever, and he distrusted the proposal of the right hon. Baronet, as he believed it would be cited as a verification of the boast made by certain journals in Ireland that, although the second reading had been assented to by the Government, some means would be found of strangling the Bill in Committee.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  believed that the Bill could be much more advantageously considered in a Select Committee than in a Committee of the Whole House. Great inconvenience would be caused if the Bill should not receive full consideration, for it was in direct conflict with the Prerogative of the Crown and the system which prevailed in England. Besides, one of the Members for Londonderry (Mr. R. Smyth) had given Notice of an Amendment to the Bill. There existed no desire to interrupt its progress, but rather to make its provisions exactly conformable to those of the English system.
 MR. R. SMYTH  explained that it was not from any spirit of hostility to the Bill, but owing to peculiar local circumstances, that he had placed on the Paper a Motion for the exclusion of the county of Londonderry from its operation.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  expressed a hope that the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) would agree to the proposition of the Government.
 MR. GOLDSMID , in moving, as an Amendment, to leave out all the words after the word "That." in order to add the words—
 "The purchase of the Irish Railways by the State would be financially inexpedient, would unduly enlarge the patronage of the Government, and seriously increase the pressure of business in Parliament," 1291 1292 1293 Gartenlaube beau idéal 1294 "We cannot concur in the expediency of the purchase of the railways by the State, and we are of opinion that it is inexpedient at present
 1295 1296 "There seems no reason why receipts of railways should not in another series of year continue to manifest equally important progress. The Companies will be able, as their credit improves and their ordinary dividends increase, to raise money at cheaper rates. The additional outlay required for further accommodation and improved apparatus, though large in total amount, will be merely fractional as regards the total capital: and will be the means of inducing increased traffic, and of saving largely in compensation, and of effecting economy in working: so that it will, on the whole, be beneficial in a pecuniary sense to the Companies. The railway system generally, having to a great extent overcome the troubles connected with competition and extension from which at one time it suffered so severely, would appear to have before it, in years to come, the prospect of increasing soundness and approaching prosperity." 1297 1298 employés 1299 Quis custodiet custodem ipsum 1300 1301
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he had never made such an assertion. What he stated was that money had been advanced to aid in the construction of the Irish lines, and that nothing of the kind took place in England.
 MR. LEVESON-GOWER  observed., that the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. Blennerhassett) had stated his opinion that the purchase of Irish railways was a different question from that of English ones; but he (Mr. Gower) failed to observe any difference of principle that should apply to Irish railways and not to English railways also. It was true, as the hon. Member said, that in Ireland there were a number of small companies; but this was not sufficient to justify the proposal now made. It was undoubtedly an evil, and he feared that the agitation which was made in favour of the State purchase of railways rather tended to aggravate the evil, inasmuch as the shareholders in many instances thought that they could obtain better terms separately than if they were amalgamated. One of the strangest arguments urged in favour of this proposal was that if the Government were to undertake the management of these railways the accidents would diminish. This he did not believe; but, independently of that, the accidents alluded to occurred on English and not on Irish railways. Common sense would, therefore, dictate that the remedy should be applied where the evil existed, and it was difficult to conceive how the fact that there were accidents on railways in England could be used as an argument for purchasing lines in Ireland. Any Government that accepted this proposal would find itself placed in a very invidious position. Again, it had been proposed that there should be uniformity in the fares; but, as a Member of the Commission of 1866, he could testify to the fact that this was a result which it was impossible to arrive at. He should be glad to see anything done which would have the effect of encouraging the development of Irish railways: but he believed that it could not be done by adopting the proposal of the hon. Member for Kerry.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I hope that the hon. Members who moved and seconded the Resolution before the House (Mr. Blennerhassett and Mr. Ormsby Gore), as well as those who have taken objections to it, and the speakers who have followed them, will forgive me for saying that by far the most important speech which we have heard this evening is the one just delivered by my right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland, who, in the name of the Government, has clearly and distinctly expressed their decision not to interfere at present in the matter of the purchase of the Irish railways. This is a matter with which the Government, and the Government alone, is competent to deal; for it must be obvious to every Member of this House that an undertaking such as that proposed in the purchase of the Irish railways can only be successfully taken up and supported by the Government; and the passing of a Resolution such as this would only impede their operations if they were disposed to deal with the question, for it would at once give rise to unreasonable and unwarrantable demands upon them. Neither party in this House' has approached this question in any unfriendly spirit. The previous Government of hon. Gentlemen opposite certainly did not approach it in an unfriendly spirit by appointing a Royal Commission to inquire into the condition of the Irish railways, with instructions so worded as almost to show that if a case could be made out at all in favour of the purchase of the Irish railways, the Government would be ready to consider it. Certainly the late Government also approached
 1324 1325 1326 1327
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, that, in accordance with the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Michael Hicks-Beach), he was perfectly prepared to withdraw his Amendment, and take the division on the proposal of the hon. Member for Kerry. [ Cries of
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the Government had no objection that the Bill should be read a second time, on the understanding that it be referred to a Select Committee, in order that its clauses should be carefully considered. The Bill, as he understood it, was drawn on the lines of the Building Societies being kept as Friendly Societies, and not turned into Joint Stock Companies. That was the principle of the Bill to which, on the part of the Government, he was willing to assent; but he thought many
 1337
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE  said, he did not wish to go against the already expressed opinions of the House, but would be ready to compromise an Amendment which stood in his name by taking an intermediate day, and would name the 16th of August, which he believed would suit all parties.
 THE CHAIRMAN  explained that the Amendment could not be put unless the Amendment then before the Committee was withdrawn.
 THE O'CONOR DON  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment. He himself had always opposed the alteration of the time of the commencement of grouse shooting; but he found the great majority of those interested in the matter in Ireland were opposed to his view, and he did not think it would be wise for them in the West of Ireland to oppose the general opinion of those who took the greatest interest in the question.
 VISCOUNT CRICHTON  expressed his willingness to accept the Amendment relating to the commencement of partridge shooting.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  expressed his belief that the feeling was stronger in favour of alteration in partridge shooting than in that of grouse. The weather broke at the end of September, and very little shooting could be done.
 MR. O'CONOR  said, the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Downing) must be very much mistaken, if he thought birds got wild in Ireland towards the end of September.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that although he concurred in much that had fallen from the Mover and Seconder of the Amendment he did not agree in the conclusion at which they seemed to have arrived, that the Government should purchase no railway. In the time of the Irish famine a proposal for the purchase of the Irish railways was made on the Conservative side of the House and rejected by the Liberals; but the question was then a totally different one. Some of the arguments advanced by the supporters of this Motion were suicidal. It was said, for instance, that the Irish railways should be purchased by the State because they were badly managed, and because the shareholders got bad dividends; but the Irish people were perfectly able to manage their own affairs. If the Irish shareholders got bad dividends let them insist on better dividends, and if the Irish railways were badly managed let the public insist on better management. The real question, however, was, how far the State should interfere with such undertakings? At one time there was a rage for monopolies;
 1311 1312 1313
 MR. O'REILLY , while bowing to the Speaker's decision, thought that on a previous occasion a different course was pursued.
 MR. O'REILLY  asked whether, if the words were added, the Question would then be put as a substantive Question?
 MR. KAVANAGH  said, that he would not have troubled the House with any remarks on this subject, were it not for the challenge of the hon. Member for Cork County; but he hoped that as long as he had the honour of holding a seat in it he would openly express his opinions, regardless of the side upon which he sat, and that opinion was that he did not know any boon which would prove of more benefit to Ireland than that of the purchase of the Irish railways. He trusted that whatever course the Government might feel it their duty to take, they would not, by supporting the Amendment of the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid), pledge themselves to a policy antagonistic to the only request that could be made of them, backed by the unanimous wish of the Irish people.
 MR. DISRAELI : To prevent any unnecessary confusion, I only wish to say that while I should have preferred voting on the original issue, I shall now, after the course that has been taken, support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid).
 MR. DISRAELI : I ventured yesterday in deference to what I believed to be the general wish of the House, to state that we would arrange that the debate on the Ashantee War and the Cape Coast Settlements should be resumed on Monday next; but from the forms of the House, and the manner in which it was arranged at the moment, nay hon. Friend who brought forward that Motion (Mr. Hanbury) would find himself in an embarrassing position, as it would interfere with the progress of Business in Committee of Supply tomorrow, being an Amendment to Supply. If my hon. Friend would agree to bring it forward as a substantive Motion on Monday, the debate could then take place, as I have promised, and the general Business of the House would not be interfered with. I would therefore suggest that he should bring forward his Motion in a substantive form and withdraw it as an Amendment to Supply. I understand my hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth is not in the House now; but he has signified his willingness that that arrangement should be made, and we therefore agree to that course being pursued.
 MR. SAMUELSON  asked the Vice President of the Council, Whether, before a Vote is taken for Education, Science, and Art, he will state to the House in what manner the vacancy in the Science and Art Department created by the resignation of Mr. H. Cole is to be supplied; and, whether any reorganization of that Department is in contemplation?
 MR. SAMUELSON  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether the Government have received any report or other information from Mr. Froude on the capabilities of the "Devastation" for ocean service, and whether he is prepared to communicate such information to the House?
 MR. D. DAVIES  said, he had had great experience in the working of railways, and his opinion was that a poor railway was the worst security upon which a man could raise money. If, as was said, the Government could earn £100,000 more by working a railway themselves, they would certainly spend £100,000 more in doing so than would be expended by a private company. If the Government purchased the Irish railways it would not be enough that they should give the same service as was now given by the railway companies.
 1310
 MR. HERMON  opposed the Motion. It had been contended that this was a purely Irish matter; but the logical deduction from the adoption of the proposal would be the purchase of the English railways, and there would be a greater inducement to purchase the latter, as the security would be so much the better. If the Irish railways had been paying concerns we should never have heard of any proposal for their purchase by Government. This was not a purely Irish question; it involved the interests of the Kingdom at large. Hon. Members opposite said they that did not wish for any class legislation. But he maintained the purchase of the Irish railways would be in reality the adoption of the system to which hon. Gentlemen Themselves objected. He hoped the House would refuse to sanction the Motion of the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. Blennerhassett.)
 MR. ANDERSON : I wish, Sir, to ask a Question on a point of Order. In the case of an Election Petition where the Judge has decided the election void on account of a very considerable amount of bribery, is it quite in Order to move for a writ for a new election without giving the House sufficient time to consider the Report, and would it not be more in Order to put a Notice on the Paper of the intention to move for such a writ?
 MR. HUNT : Mr. Froude has been on board the  Devastation
 SIR HENRY JAMES , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that its object was to increase the fees payable to Returning Officers at Parliamentary elections; for, of late years, the duties thrown upon them had been largely increased, and it would be found that the fees which they were entitled to receive did not sufficiently recompense them for the extra duties imposed upon them. By ancient custom—or what was called the common law of the land—the Returning Officer could make no charge for expenses upon any candidate at a Parliamentary election, in accordance with the assumption that they, as sheriffs of counties and mayors of boroughs, should execute the Queen's writ free of charge, whether to successful or unsuccessful candidates. Not only was it prohibited by the common law to make any such charge, but also by the statute passed in the reign of William III. it was clearly and distinctly laid down that no Returning Officer could make any charge whatever in respect of the election of a Parliamentary candidate. By the 7 & 8  Will Geo Vict. 1340
 MR. BUTT  apprehended it to be quite in Order to negative the Amendment of the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid), it being competent to any Member to propose the insertion of an entirely different set of words after "that," He had understood from the right hon. Baronet (Sir Michael Hicks-Beach) that the Government were not prepared to support the Amendment,
 1333
 MR. BUTT  said, that after the able speech of his hon. Friend who had introduced the Motion (Mr. Blennerhassett), he should not have thought it necessary to address the House; but some statements had been made which seemed to require a few remarks. The noble Marquess who had just addressed the House (the Marquess of Hartington) had observed that there had been no agitation in Ireland on this question, from which it must be inferred that in order to obtain any boon for that country there must be agitation. The opinion which had been quietly expressed by the people of Ireland in many directions was a far greater expression than any noisy agitation. This question was not a new one. It had first been mooted in 1864. In 1865, on the provision in the Act of 1844. empowering the State to purchase railways at the end of 21 years, coming into force in Ireland, a Commission of Inquiry was appointed. Lord Emly then proposed the purchase
 1328 s s d. 1329 A laugh
 MR. JOHN GEORGE M'CARTHY  said, he was glad to have heard the observations which had been just expressed by the hon. Member (Mr. Kavanagh) on the opposite side of the House, It had been said by the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid) that the proposal to purchase the Irish railways would require £1,000,000,000 sterling, but it would not require any such money. The Irish railways—and the purchase it was proposed should be confined to them—were valued at from £20,000,000 to £23,000,000. They comprised about 2,000 miles of railway, and in England there were already railway companies with mileage nearly as great, capital considerably larger, and traffic immensely superior in quantity. The latest statistics he could obtain showed that there were, in 1868, 1,908 miles of railway in Ireland,
 1308 s s s d s d 1309
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  asked what argument could be founded on the fact? If the money had been advanced, it had been repaid, and with interest. But it had been said that if the Irish lines were purchased, the English lines should be purchased also. He had the high authority of the late Prime Minister for saying that such need not be the case. "It would not," said the right hon. Gentleman, "involve the extension of the principle to England;" and again—
 "The circumstances were so different that he did not feel that the judgment of Parliament would he compromised by any step that it might adopt with reference to Ireland."—[3  Hansard bonâ fide 1305 s 1306
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  congratulated his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry (Mr. Bleunerhassett) on the ability he displayed in bringing forward his Motion, and hoped the subject would receive the attention of the House. He (Mr. Downing) regretted that the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Barttelot) had imported into this question a matter which might very well have been left out, and he cordially agreed with him in wishing that the Irish people were as happy as the English, but there was in fact a marked difference between the people of the two countries. This question had been several years in suspense, something like a promise being on one occasion given, while on another, hopes were held out that the existing mismanagement must and would be remedied. In 1836 the House resolved that Irish railways should be executed as public works, the management being-vested in the Irish Board of Works, with power to the Treasury to consider what assistance might be requisite. This had remained a dead letter, as also had the recommendation of the Commission six years ago, which was adopted by
 1304
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : A great part of the discussion of this evening, and not a little, I believe, of the speech of the hon. Member who introduced the subject (Mr. Blennerhassett), has very naturally been taken
 1314 1315 1316 1317 1318 1319 viâ viâ viâ 1320 v s d 1321 1322 1323
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  explained that he had said it would be more convenient if the hon. Member for Rochester withdrew his Amendment, and if the House divided on the original Resolution. Some few Members having, however, objected to that withdrawal, they had better proceed to a division.
 MR. M'LAGAN  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he intends to introduce this Session any measure for ascertaining the causes and preventing the frequency of Fires, in terms of the Report of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the existing legislative provisions for the protection of Life and Property against Fires in the United Kingdom?
 MR. O'GORMAN  said, as it was his intention to vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. Blennerhassett), for whom he entertained the highest respect, it was expedient that he should explain the reasons for his hostility. At the present moment it was a consolation to know that Irish people were employed upon the Irish railways; but it was not necessary for him to be a Helenus, or to change his sex and become a Cassandra, in order to prophesy that, if over the Irish railways were delivered over to the English Government, three weeks would not. elapse before every Irishman employed on them would be sent about his business, and every man, from chief superintendent to lowest porter, would be superseded by an Englishman. The officers would be told to go to America with a vengeance—or to "Hell or Connaught."
 MR. O'GORMAN  said, he did not think his language was worse than that of the hon. Member opposite who called the right hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone) a "trickster." The language he (Mr. O'Gorman) had used was perfectly well known; it was perfectly historical; it was used by a man who took the mace from off the Table of the House; but of course he would with pleasure beg pardon if he had gone beyond the Rules. If the English Government were allowed to tamper with Irish railways, Irish railways were at an end. The only disgracefully mismanaged railways were those that had English connections: those that had only Irish connections were fortunate and respectable. The moral he deduced from that was, "Keep Englishmen away and you will be respectable;" and that was all he wanted to do. He would relate a story as to the mode in which England treated Ireland. A certain Lord Lieutenant—as to whose name it did not matter—was out riding a horse in Phœnix Park in company with a man well known for his wit, scholarship, and patriotism, who had represented Knocktopher for 40 years in the Irish Parliament, the late Sir Hercules Langrishe. The horse stumbled in a boggy part and threw his Excellency, who fell on his ears, but being an Irish horse it throw him back
 1332
 MR. BOURKE  said, the Papers relative to Consular jurisdiction in Egypt, more especially relative to the Suez Canal, were being considered, and would be laid upon the Table of the House before long.
 MR. BLENNERHASSETT : I rise to call the attention of the House to the subject of the acquisition and control of Railways by the State, and I shall conclude with a Motion, which, for reasons I will presently state, deals exclusively with the railway system of one portion of the Kingdom. In approaching this question, I cannot but remember with satisfaction that the views I am about to advance have received, on various occasions, the warm approval of some of the most eminent and experienced men connected with the working of railways in this country. This is a question on which abstract ideas and mere theories count for little, and I am well aware that if the feeling of the House is to go with me at all, in advocating, as I intend to advocate, the acquisition of railways by the State, it can only be if I am able to show some practical grounds for the strong conviction I entertain of the necessity of such a course. On the very threshold of this subject, I have to meet an objection founded on the principle that "the business of Government is not to trade but to govern." This is a maxim so sound and useful in its legitimate application that there is no little danger of losing sight of the necessary limitations to which it is subject, and so applying it to a state of things to which it really may not extend. It will be at once admitted that it has constantly been found necessary, in practice, to limit this restriction of a Government interference so as to exclude certain classes of industrial operations to which the principle of competition is inapplicable, which it is of the utmost importance to the public to have well performed, and which no private enterprise would be able to manage in an equally satisfactory manner. I am entirely opposed to the idea that the Government should, for a profit, enter into competition with the ordinary trader, and I am quite willing to
 1264 1265 "There is not a single instance," he said, speaking in the year 1867, "at the present moment, where a line has been granted upon the ground of affording competition, where that competition exists." "That there are two capitals on which interest has to he paid, and two lines then have to be worked to accommodate the same traffic-instead of one capital and one line." "The traffic that would he ample for affording a reasonable profit to one line, is often quite insufficient for two, thus Parliament, which in the case of excessive profits might warrantably interfere to lower the rates, is debarred from so doing from a sense of justice, and by the fear that a further reduction of profits, already too low, might render the working of the line impracticable." 1266 "How far does competition exist, and how far can it be relied on?" replied—"There is little or no real competition in point of charges between railway companies, and its continuance cannot be relied on. There is at the present time considerable competition in point of facilities, but the security for its permanence is uncertain." "The facts and figures brought before them afford proof that the general recommendations and resolutions of Committees, Commissions, or Government department, have had but little influence upon the action of Private Bill Committees, and have not stayed the progress of the companies in their course of union and amalgamation." "If the above recommendations are adopted by Parliament, they will not have the effect of preventing the growth of railway monopolies." 1267 "As to securing the equal treatment of company by company, or the free and uninterrupted forwarding of traffic over all the lines which Parliament had sanctioned, the success of the Act had been most imperfect." and he added that, "in controlling the dealings of company with company, the. Act had been, to a great degree, a dead letter."'—[3  Hansard 1268 1269 1270 "the excessive and especially the unequal vales levied by the railway companies on the traffic to and from Liverpool as compared with the rates charged for the same goods for similar distances to and from other places." "these extra charges are so imposed as to force the traffic out of its natural channels, and to enable the railway companies to offer a bounty to divert it into other channels through which it would not otherwise flow;" "then the consumers of imports and producers of exports in the great and populous district of which Liverpool is the natural maritime centre, are burthened with a tax and restricted on their trade in order that unprofitable extensions of railways in other directions may be made to pay." 1271 "Seeing,"' he said, "that there is a monopoly with respect to conveyance and communication, the Legislature should have the power of purchasing
 1272 "It was the opinion of the Parliament of 1844 that it was desirable to take measures for leaving their successors in a condition of perfect freedom to interfere with and acquire property in railways, in case such a measure should be thought advisable." 1273 1274 "Any transference of ownership as regards the real owners, the proprietary, inasmuch as the same individuals who now hold the railway stock of companies, might continue to possess if they choose, and no doubt, under judicious arrangements, a large proportion of them would choose, the railway stock of the State." 1275 1276 "There need not be even a change of management as many of the present chairmen and directors would probably become administrators for the State, while the officers and servants of the companies would, as a rule, remain in their places, and the management and working would be conducted by the same heads and the same hands." "That great establishment," said Mr. Scudamore, speaking of his own department, "is rendered efficient because it is worked under the eye of the public, its master, because it is brought face to face with that master not merely from day to day, but from hour to hour: because it does work which is absolutely necessary to its master, which, when well done is of the highest possible advantage, and which, if ill-done, is utterly intolerable." 1277 1278 1279 informâ pauperis 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284 s s s s d. d 1285 "What a very great drawback to the development of fisheries in remote parts of the coast is the cost and difficulty of conveying the fish to the large markets. In some places the expense of transit often amounts to fully half the sum realized by the fish. This is particularly the case where the fish has to be earned over two or three different lines of railway, each making a particular charge. No industry would be more benefited by the greater development and amalgamation of the railways than the coast fisheries." 1286 s d s d 1287 1288 "That it is expedient that measures should be taken to obtain possession of the Irish Railways and place them under Government management."
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he had heard
 1330
 MR. T. E. SMITH  said, he did not wish to oppose the second reading of the Bill, or that it be referred to a Select Committee; but he thought the power proposed to be conferred on the Returning Officer to exact a deposit from the candidate was a most objectionable one. If such a clause were passed, it would have a very injurious effect upon a considerable number of candidates. He hoped they would he heard in their own behalf before the Committee.
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE , in seconding the Motion, said, he resided in the vicinity of three Irish Railways, and the trains on them consisted generally of one or two carriages attached to the engine. The country had a very large population, but the fares were much too high for them to pay. The fault was not that of the Directors of the lines, because they were the servants of the shareholders, and not those of the public. It was their only business to try to get the largest dividends they could for their shareholders. The efforts to promote amalgamations in Irish railways which the right hon. Gentleman the late Prime Minister made last year had failed, though the terms offered were liberal—and they failed simply because people could not be induced to divest themselves of lucrative appointments for the public good. The only remedy for this state of things was the compulsory purchase of Irish railways by the State. What was wanted was that the Report of the Commissioners, which recommended the purchase of the railways by the Government, should be acted upon. The hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid) had placed on the Paper Notice of an Amendment—namely, "that the purchase of the Irish Railways by the State would be financially inexpedient." But would it be so? Two scientific societies and some of the first financiers of the day, said there
 1289 1290
 MR. C. LEWIS  agreed that the Bill was, in its main provisions, a very useful
 1341
 MR. SPEAKER : I must remind the hon. Member that his language exceeds the licence of Parliamentary debate.
 MR. SPEAKER  asked whether it was the pleasure of the House to permit the hon. Member for Rochester to withdraw his Amendment? and there being cries of "No!"
 MR. SPEAKER  put the Question, "That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question." divided:
 MR. SPEAKER : I must point out to the House the position of the Question at the present moment. The House, by its recent vote, has declared that the words proposed by the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. Blennerhassett) shall not stand part of the Question. The only word, consequently, which stands part of the Question at the present moment is the word "That." If the House desires either to affirm or to negative the proposition of the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid) the proper course would be to allow those words of the hon. Member for Rochester to be added to the Question, and that the House should then take such a course as it thinks proper with regard to the Main Question so amended.
 MR. SPEAKER : I may state that it has sometimes happened that the House has negatived the proposal that the words proposed to be added should stand part of the Question; but the effect of that vote is that an entry is made upon our Journals that the word "that" is the only word which remains. To avoid that inconvenience, therefore, I would submit to the House that the more convenient course would be to allow the words to be added, and then to vote the affirmative or negative upon the Main Question.
 MR. SPEAKER : There is nothing opposed to Order in such a proceeding. It was, however, formerly the practice to pass a Sessional Resolution to the effect that, when a seat had been rendered vacant by the Report of an Election Committee on the ground of bribery, a new writ could not be moved for without Notice being given in the Votes.
 SIR EARDLET WILMOT  said, he felt deeply interested in the welfare of Ireland, but he failed to see how the purchase of the Irish railways by the State could conduce to the prosperity of that country, or else he should vote in favour of that proposition. The chief reasons why this appeal was made were the alleged want of traffic and the high prices charged for traffic by the Irish railways. Traffic always would produce railways, but the converse of this—namely, that railways would produce traffic—was only true where there was a germ and nucleus of traffic to create and develop the railway system. The case of sugar had been mentioned, but everyone consumed sugar, whereas in Ireland there was no present requirement, or, at all events, very little for railway accommodation. In addition to this, were the Government to have all the patronage of the railways in their hands, a great impulse and addition would be given to that party feeling and excitement which had always been the bane and the curse of the sister country. For his part, he should be glad to see the spirit of enterprise so advanced in Ireland as to develop her traffic; but he could not see that the Resolution before the House could in any way advance her material and social interests. With regard to the alleged prosperity of Ireland, he thought that anyone who would travel through that country must see that that statement was not correct.
 1307
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was unable to say how it was that the Reports of the Inland
 1263
 COLONEL BARTTELOT , in seconding the Amendment, said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had in his most able and lucid speech clearly made out a ground for rejecting the Motion of the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. Blennerhassett.) He (Colonel Barttelot) approached that question in no unfriendly spirit to Ireland. It was not in any sense a party question; and if any real grievance could be shown to exist in regard to it he was sure that every hon. Member would readily do his best to remedy it. The hon. Member for Kerry, who had very ably brought forward the Motion, did not disguise from himself that the question of the Irish railways was mixed up with that of the English and Scotch. Last year the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone), while admitting that Irish railways might be assisted in raising debentures, resisted the noble Lord's (Lord Claud Hamilton's) Motion, expressing his agreement with the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid) that it was unwise for the Government to act as traders, though the Post Office was, and the Telegraphs might be, an exception. As to the Telegraphs, he might remark, the Government purchase had not apparently been a very successful speculation, the large dividends anticipated not being likely to accrue. He warned the House of the danger that might be incurred by purchasing the Irish railways. They were first told that they could be got for £22,000,000, next that a sum of £28,000,000 would be requisite, but the probability was
 1302 1303 "O Erin, O Erin, thy winter is past, And the hope that lived through it shall blossom at last."
 VISCOUNT SANDON : The arrangements for the re-organization of the Science and Art Department, consequent upon the resignation of Mr. Cole, are at this moment the subject of communication between the Education Department and the Treasury. We have good reason to hope that they will very shortly be completed. I am anxious, if possible, to explain them to the House when the Education Estimates are under discussion; but I fear I cannot pledge myself to do so.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, in reply to the first Question of the hon. Member, that it was not the intention of
 1407
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : Sir, I have made inquiries on this subject, but I have not been able to obtain any definite answer as to actual facts. I understand that it has always been the practice of the Superintendent of this Reformatory to allow the boys at the Reformatory to work for the farmers at a certain rate of wages, and that in consequence of that the Reformatory is kept up practically without any expense to the Country and with great advantage to the farmers. So far as I have been able to learn, there has been no difference in their employment since the matter to which the hon. Baronet refers in his Question has taken place, and in my opinion there ought not to be any difference, but they ought to work exactly for the same terms and at the same places as they did before.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is prepared to alter the order issued by the Home Office respecting the appointment of police as inspectors of nuisances, so that in future the sanitary authority may, if they think fit, appoint police to perform these duties?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he presumed this Question had been put to him in consequence of the action the Government had thought fit to take in regard to the duties of the police in Scotland. It was not the intention of the Government to make any alteration in the existing order with regard to the employment of police in sanitary matters in England. There was a clear distinction between the cases of England and Scotland. In the first place, the police in England were tinder the authority of the Home Office; but so far as sanitary matters were concerned they would be under the direction of the Local Government Board. In the second place, there was in Scotland a universal feeling that the police should be employed as Inspectors of Nuisances; whereas in England public opinion ran for the most part in a contrary direction.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that he regretted that the Bill was not already in the hands of hon. Members. He believed it was to be in the Vote Office that night, where any hon. Member might procure a copy of it. It was not the intention of the Bill to prevent the granting of occasional licences, by the Justices, such as the hon. Member alluded to in his Question. The only difference was to this extent—that the occasional licences which authorized the sale on special occasions and in other than licensed premises were granted now by the Excise and countersigned by a single magistrate, whereas by the new Licensing Bill they would be less restricted than at present. Occasional licences did not at present, except in the case of a public dinner or ball, authorize any sale beyond one hour after sunset. It was proposed by the Bill to authorize the sale in these cases up to any hour not later than 10 o'clock, which the Justices might specify in the occasional licence. In the case of an occasional licence granted on the occasion of a public dinner or ball, the practice had been to specify in the licence the hour at which the licence should
 1411
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT  said, he called it "favourable weather" when it was not blowing a gale of wind. She never went to America; she never went even as far as the Mediterranean. If he were responsible for her, he should not be satisfied with rising in the House, and saying she was a safe ship; and he would recommend right hon. Gentlemen opposite to go on board the  Devastation
 CAPTAIN PRICE  said, he thought the present condition of the Navy was anything but satisfactory. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen) had boasted that if he had left the Navy inefficient, his Government had also left £5,000,000 or £6,000,000 to set it to rights. But had the right hon. Gentleman ever endeavoured to apply any portion of that surplus to the improvement of the Navy? He disputed the accuracy of the figures given to the Committee by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) as to the force of the Navies of France and Russia. The Committee should not take him as entertaining any alarmist view; but it was right to know the fact that our naval force was inferior to the combined Navies of Prance and Russia, to which it was asserted by the right hon. Gentleman to be superior. It was inferior not only as regarded sea-going and coast defence iron-clads, but also as regarded gunboats and the number of seamen, Marines, and Reserves, while the French fleet alone was more heavily armed than was the Navy of England. While he utterly deprecated such a thing as a "scare" as unworthy the country and utterly uncalled for, they ought to look facts in the face, and not, at all events, to miscalculate their true position.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT  said, he believed he could explain to right hon. Gentlemen opposite the meaning of the phrases "a paper fleet" and "dummy ships." Professional men looked upon ships that could not be sent to sea as paper or dummy ships. The hon. Member for Heading (Mr. Shaw Lefevre) told the House that out of 27 sea-going ships only 14 were fit to go to sea. Ships that could not work their boilers up to their proper power were not fit to go to sea. The mistake had arisen as to what professional men had called dummy ships, but which right hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition bench called efficient ships of war. If the  Devastation
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  advocated the claims of the subscribers to the Indian Annuity Fund, and wished that the present Government had taken a more liberal view of their right to a just consideration. He hoped the House would reject the clause proposed by the noble Lord, and adopt that which he (Mr. Beckett-Denison) intended to move.
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he hoped the House would adopt the clause moved by the Government, and reject that of the hon. Member. The parties whose claim the hon. Member advocated had no claims whatever, and such was the opinion of Lord Romilly, Lord Cairns, the late Lord Colonsay, and other noble Lords.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, after the result of the division he would not move his clause; but he would move to add to the end of the Bill the words "anything in the Statute of Limitations to the contrary notwithstanding."
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  objected to the constitution of the Committee, and complained that there was not a single Irishman upon it. How was it, he wished to know, that Irishmen were excluded from this Committee? There were English and Scotch Members on the Committee, and he was glad of it. He moved that the Committee be constituted of 21 Members, and two Irish Members be appointed.
 MR. DISRAELI  assured the hon. Gentleman that there was no disinclination on the part of the Government to appoint Irish Members on the Committee, and they would consent to accept one Irish Member named by the hon. Member for Cork, and nominate another Irish Member on their part.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  protested against the system invariably carried out by both political parties in that House, Whig and Tory, in the appointment of Select Committees.
 MR. A. F. EGERTON  said, that no one would grudge the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Childers) this long-deferred opportunity of defending his past policy. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to think that his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty had selected an inopportune moment to justify the policy pursued by Mr. Corry; but if hon. Members would carry their recollections back a few years, they would remember the violent attacks made upon Mr. Corry's administration; and by none were those attacks more frequent than by the late Prime Minister, who however, was everywhere answered by his right hon. Friend the present Home Secretary (Mr. Cross). What they contended was, that after Mr. Corry had loft the Admiralty, the Navy had not been kept up in so efficient a manner as it ought to have been. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen), in the speech which he had made, did not attempt to controvert the facts cited by his right hon. Friend. So much, indeed, was this the case, that the right hon. Gentleman's speech was generally regarded as one
 1447 1448 1449 employés Minotaur, Thunderer Achilles
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY , asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of the Government to adopt Mr. Rogers' plan for saving life from shipwreck; or, if they are not yet prepared to do so, whether they propose to take any, and if any, what steps for further testing the utility of
 1410
 LORD ESLINGTON  said, while complimenting the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Childers) on the ability of his defence, he felt some surprise that the
 1450 1451 Vanguard Devastation Thunderer Devastation Devastation Devastation Inflexible 1452 1453
 MR. WILBRAHAM EGERTON  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What steps have been taken under the Treaty of Commerce to obtain from the French Government a
 1408
 MR. MACDONALD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department. If it is his intention this Session to introduce a Bill for the better suppression of Truck or a Bill for the payment of Wages, in conformity with the recommendation of the late Royal Commission on the subject; also, if it be his intention this Session to introduce a Bill for the amendment of the Law relating to compensation in case of injuries or deaths caused by negligence of employers, or persons acting in their place or in their behalf?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I shall propose to the House that we should adjourn on Friday, the 22nd of May, and meet again on Monday, the 1st of June.
 MR. DISRAELI : I can find, Sir, no evidence whatever of any understanding being come to with Mr. E. M. Barry about a new façade; but realty the pith of the Question is whether Her Majesty's Government intend to erect under the circumstances a new facade. Now, the erection of a new facade is a very delicate business, and considering we have not yet been three months in office, I may say I shall require considerably more time to inquire into the subject before I could embark in such an enterprise. At present Her Majesty's Government have no intention whatever of proposing to the House the erection of a new façade.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, the Agricultural Returns are taken in the third week in June of each year; but owing to the very great number of Returns it is impossible to compile a summary within two or three months after their collection.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, Mr. Rogers' plan for throwing a double rope, with blocks attached, at one cast out of mortars into ships in distress, instead of the generally adopted practice of throwing first a rope by a rocket over the ship along which a block may be communicated, has had a fair trial, in accordance with the inventors' conditions, by the Board of Trade, and the received practice has been preferred by all the best authorities. There appears no reason for a repetition of the trial.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, When he proposes that the Whitsuntide Recess should commence, and whether he intends that it should extend over the third of June?
 MR. E. J. REED  said, with regard to the much-abused  Devastation Devastation 1485
 MR. O'DONNELL  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he could inform the House whether it be the fact that the Suez Canal Company was unrepresented on the International Commission which recently altered the Canal Transit Dues in the interest of the vessels using the Canal?
 MR. ANDERSON  in moving—
 "That, where any Election has been declared void, under the Parliamentary Elections Act of 1868, and the Judge has reported that any person has been guilty of bribery and corrupt practices, no Motion for the issuing of a new Writ shall be made without two days' previous notice being given in the Votes," 1489
 MR. BENTINCK  remarked that the great wear and tear in the machinery of our ships was owing to the fact that the late Government, through a desire for economy, had supplied the Navy with cheap mixed coal, which destroyed the machinery more rapidly than good coal would have done; and thus, instead of saving our money, they had, by false economy, brought upon us a large expenditure. With regard to the remarkable ship the  Devastation
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the details which the right hon. Gentleman had given showed that the Navy was not in an efficient state. Indeed, all went to show that at the present moment the condition of the Navy was most inefficient, and his statement had been endorsed by what had fallen from the present First Lord, and from hon., right hon., and gallant Members on this subject. The right hon. Gentleman in his speech had done what was scarcely necessary for him to do; he had gone the length of apologizing for what he termed his extravagance in the matter of Naval expenditure. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that whatever charges might be brought against him with regard to our Navy, that of extravagance would not be one of them. The right hon. Gentleman went on to make a boast of the number of ships he had built—why, comparatively speaking, he had not done anything in the way of building ships at all. The result of his administration, by his own showing, was that we had hardly any Navy we could send to sea. ["No!"] The right hon. Gentleman had explained that one of the causes of his extravagant expenditure upon the Navy was the increased cost of repairing our iron-clads. That was no new story; when the right hon. Gentleman first took office he was aware that we should have to spend more in repairing our iron-clads and in maintaining our Navy in an efficient condition than we had done formerly. Then he went on to state that as fast as we built ships they went out of date; but that was au argument against building any iron-clads at, all. But, allowing ourselves to entertain the agreeable idea, just for the sake of argument, that we possessed a Navy which we could send to sea, where was our reserve of ships of war in case our present fleet was crippled by an engagement with an enemy? Successive Governments had reduced our Dockyards so that we could not rely upon them to repair our ships in times of emergency, and we should have no vessels to take the place of the injured ones. He regretted the unwise course that had been pursued of getting rid of our old screw line-of-battle ships,
 1460 The Times The Pall Mall Gazette "It appears that long before the resignation of the late Government, Admiral Sir Alexander Milne and his professional colleagues were impressed with the fact that our sea-going fleet was not in such a state as to comport with the position of the first maritime nation of the world. They were also aware that we were very weak in reliefs; they therefore felt bound to express their views in writing to Mr. Goschen, and declared in doing so that a considerable outlay was necessary to carry them out. Whatever may have been the opinions entertained by the First Lord of the Admiralty, he did not feel justified in taking any step on his own authority which might lead to additional expenditure, and he laid the communication which he received before the Cabinet." 1461
 MR. GOSCHEN  explained that what he had said related to the cost of putting certain of the ships into a good condition.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he hoped that as the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hunt) had so pointedly challenged him to explain certain statements he had made the other night, he would be allowed briefly to state what he thought was the present situation. He believed he could give a clear idea of what had really caused that "scare" for which both he and the right hon. Gentleman opposite were at present held responsible in the opinion of some persons. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had spoken of a "fleet on paper," and of "dummy" ships; and it was the use of that significant language—perhaps never heard before from a First Lord of the Admiralty—which had so challenged the opinion of the House and the country. And the right hon. and gallant Member for Stamford (Sir John Hay) had interpreted the speech of the First Lord as representing that the fleet was in a disgraceful position. [Mr. Hunt denied that he had said it was disgraceful.] No; but he had used words which led others to declare that it followed from his language—that the state of the fleet was disgraceful. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that he had shown what he was about to state to the House to his naval advisers; but were the able naval advisers of the right hon. Gentleman parties to the use of such terms as "dummy" ships and a "fleet on paper?" He was confident they were not. He was glad that the right hon. Gentleman had had an opportunity of retracting those phrases, and he hoped that evening had not been ill spent in showing that the fleet of this country—without looking to all the details of whether a ship was for a few months under repair or not—was composed of the most powerful and the most numerous vessels in the world. And then the right hon. Gentleman spoke of ships being inefficient if they were simply under repair for a time, and that again
 1481 1482 1483
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he differed from the hon. and gallant Admiral as to what was "favourable weather."
 MR. HUNT  said, he would consider it.
 MR. HUNT  admitted that five vessels, on which his hon. Friend seemed to rest his defence, were being built to take their places; but with the exception of the  Thunderer Devastation Devastation Devastation 1479 1480
 MR. HUNT  said, that when he listened to the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) it seemed as if he caught an echo of an article which had appeared in print that morning, and in which he was threatened with a severe rebuke for having dared to tell the House of Commons the truth about the iron-clad Navy. He confessed he was not inclined to "kiss the rod," even when it was wielded by the gentle hand of the right hon. Member for Pontefract. In making the statement the other night as to the condition of the iron-clad fleet, he was merely discharging his duty as the person charged with the administration of the Navy. For weeks alarming statements had been made in public prints—statements containing not merely general charges against the efficiency of the fleet, but going into particulars to show that our ships were not to be relied on. Then there was a debate in "another place," on a Motion which was not pressed in consequence of a promise being given that the matter should be noticed by himself when he introduced the Navy Estimates in the House of Commons. Again, a Motion was placed on the No-
 1469 1470 1471 1472 1473 Hansard 1474 1475 1476 1477 1478
 MR. HUNT : I never said so. I never said a word about a second-class Navy.
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  had said they were discarded long ago; first, when vessels of the  Audacious Devastation
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, that after the long and able speeches of his right hon. Friends near him he should not have trespassed on the time of the Committee, had he not held a somewhat-important position in the administration of the Navy under the late Government. For five years that Government had carried on the affairs of the country, and now great lamentations were raised as to the bad condition in which they had left our fleet, and great complaints were made that the Dockyards had been reduced to a state of disorganization. Well, that being so, the House had heard what was the view taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of all those statements. It was measured by the sum of £100,000. That was all the difference between the two Governments after five years of administration. All the delinquencies of the late Government could now, it seemed, be covered by that very moderate amount. That admission, he contended, afforded the best testimony to the soundness of the policy which that Government had pursued. Those who looked to the right hon. Gentleman's Colleague, the First Lord of the Admiralty, would no doubt be disposed to take a much more serious view of the case, although he, too, had made no
 1462 personnel 1463 1464 Sultan Hercules Viper Scorpion Wirern Enterprise Caledonia Devastation Thunderer Cyclops Rupert Glatton Hotspur Royal Sovereign Prince Alfred Devastation 1465 Royal Sovereign Prince Alfred Stanch Devastation Audacious Sultan Hercules Monarch Bellerophon the Monarch 1466 Defence Resistance Warrior Bellerophon Minotaur Black Prince Agincourt Northumberland Penelope Favourite Agincourt Northumberland 1467 1468
 MR. CHILDERS : What he meant was, that the effect of the expressions used by the right hon. Gentleman was that the country was led to believe so. In fact, to quote the words of an old sea song—
 "Should foggy Opdam chance to know Our sad and dismal story, The Dutch would scorn so mean a foe." 1421 1422 "Adsum qui feci; in me convertite ferrum;" 1423 Megara 1424 Megcera Devastation Devastation Devastation 1425 1426 1427 1428 1429 Audacious 1430 1431 Derastation 1432 1433 1434 1435 1436 Navy List Devastation Audacious Devastation 1437 Viper, Vixen, Water-witch, Scorpion Wivern Glatton Glatton, Prince Albert Royal Sovereign Hercules 1438 1439 1440 compte de liquidation Invalides compte de-liquidation iront sans case en dépérissant compte de liquidation 1441 's'anéantit chaque jour graduellement ira sans cesse en dépérissant malaise général 1442 la faculté de ralentir le dépérisscment de la flotte, Donnez nous le plus possible. entrainement patriotirpte 1443 "Unless something is done to supply the deficiency of ships, our cruising Navy, scarcely respectable for a nation of our rank and responsibilities, will soon almost wholly pass out of existence. I hope that efficient measures will be taken to cheek the decline of our naval power. The commercial nations of Europe are able to strike our shores sharply and suddenly. Our own yards, small in area, very deficient in water front, developed on no well-considered plan are imperfectly adapted to the changed condition of construction and equipment. The whole number of our officers, including lieutenants and those above them, is 488." 1444 personnel Sevastopol Warrior; Kremlin Defence; Pervenitz Pallas; Monarch Peter the Great Devastation Monarch Sultan 1445 1446 "When Fortune, various goddess, lowers, Collect your strength, exert your powers; But when she breathes a kinder gale, Be wise, and furl your swelling sail."
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that when the Government of 186G was formed, a portentous statement was made by the then First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir John Pakington) with respect to the condition in which his predecessors had left the Navy. He was asked in August, 1866, by a Member sitting on his own side of the House (Mr. Graves) for the names of the ships available for the Reserve for reliefs; and Sir John Pakington's answer was that he trusted he should be excused for not giving the names of these vessels, because if he did the list would unfortunately be a
 1418 1419
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, this question was considered by the late Government, by whom it was decided that there were not sufficient grounds for recommending to Parliament a Vote for the purpose of sending emigrants to Western Australia.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, that the statement of the First Lord of the Admiralty with regard to the state of the Navy had created a great deal of alarm; but he thought that on investigation it would be found that whatever were the shortcomings of the late Government, there was no necessity whatever, either for sensational Estimates, or for spasmodic shipbuilding. In dealing with this subject, he should accept the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, which was to the effect that we had of iron-clads built and building, but that really only 18 of them were fit for service. [Mr. HUNT: I said for the service of the year.] For the service of the year. The right hon. Gentleman first divided the ships into two classes—those suitable for sea-going, and those suitable for harbour defence, of which there were 41 of the former, and 14 of the latter. But then of the sea-going vessels 5 were building, which reduced the available force to 36—a number which was perfectly in accord with the Returns laid before the House. Of those 36, his right hon. Friend said that 9 might be considered obsolete, and 9 which were under repair, though not condemned, were likely to last only for short periods. Practically, then, we had 18 which were useful, and 18 which were useless for the service of the year; and of the latter, 9 were in a totally different category from the 9 which the right hon. Gentleman had referred to as obsolete. [Mr. HUNT: What I did say was that 9 were either obsolete or not worth repairing for sea-going purposes.] His observations intended to convey exactly what the right hon. Gentleman had just stated—namely, that they were actually or practically obsolete. The Committee would probably be of opinion that vessels undergoing a refit were in a totally different position from obsolete vessels. The proper way to look at the matter was that they could be used when refitted
 1413 Warrior Hector Royal Oak Resistance Black Prince 1414 1415 1416 Devastation 1417 Devastation
 MR. MONTAGUE SCOTT  asked the Secretary of State' for the Home Department, Whether under the new Licensing Bill, in taking away the discretion of magistrates as to fixing the hours of closing, it is intended also to take away their power of extending the time under special circumstances?
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the International Commission, which assembled at the invitation of the Porte at Constantinople in October last, was composed exclusively of delegates of the Maritime Powers. It follows that neither the Suez Canal Company nor any of the ship companies whose interests were opposed to the Canal Company could have a representative on the Commission. But St. de Lesseps was free to bring his case before the Commission; but he never showed any disposition or expressed any wish to attend. In point of fact, his views were amply considered by the Commission, and were fully stated and powerfully advocated by M. Rumeau, one of the French Delegates.
 MR. BOURKE : I am well aware. Sir, that this is a Question in which my hon. Friend's constituents take a great-interest. It is now the subject of negotiation between Her Majesty's Government and the French Government. It would not be expedient to lay Papers before Parliament at present; but I can assure my hon. Friend that the matter is receiving the best attention of the Foreign Office.
 MR. T. BRASSEY  said, he hoped there would be a disposition on both sides of the House to adopt a more uniform and steady policy with regard to naval expenditure than had prevailed of late years. He earnestly protested against the fluctuating policy of our naval administration. The efficiency of the British Navy ought never to become the battle-field of political partisans, and he hoped Parliament and the country would
 1454 s d s d 1455 Minotaur Valiant Bellerophon 1456 Russia Scotia 1457 s employés Marlborough Devastation Fury 1458
 MR. HEYGATE  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If there is any reason why the agricultural statistics of the United Kingdom should not be taken in the month of June, and a summary of them published in July?
 MR. WAIT  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of the Treasury to authorize the necessary expenditure for the construction of the New National Gallery, in accordance with the understanding long ago come to with Mr. E. M. Barry, a new facade being rendered necessary owing to the unsightly additions lately made to the present building?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is true that boys at a Reformatory in the parish of Milborne St. Andrew's, Dorset, supported wholly or in part by grants out of public funds, are being employed by farmers in that neighbourhood to do the work of agricultural labourers now on strike; and, if so, whether he will take steps to prevent the boys in public Reformatories from being so made use of?
 ALDERMAN SIR JAMES LAWRENCE  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of the Government to carry out the agreement entered into with Western Australia for free emigration to that Colony?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he begged to call attention to the fact that this Vote was largely increased. When the scheme of retirement was proposed—which was so generally disapproved of—by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefraet (Mr. Childers) in 1870, he stated that in the third year, or 1873, the charge would begin to diminish. The result, however was, that in 1872–73 the expenditure was £820,571, being an increase of £120,000 from 1868–69, and that last year it amounted to £862,462, and this year would reach £870,166. It might be supposed that there was a corresponding saving on the half pay and retired pay, but that was not so. The decrease on the half pay was £50,665, and on the reserved pay £2,787, being a total decrease of £53,452: whereas, the increase of the retired pay
 1487
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he had no wish to detain the Committee, but he had a practical suggestion to make to his right hon. Friend (Mr. Hunt). He was the judge, with his Colleagues., of the number of ships which it was necessary to maintain, and he had no wish to relieve him of the responsibility. But there could be no doubt, after this debate, that a large fleet was shown on paper which had no existence in fact. If hon. Members would go into the Library and would refer to  The Navy List
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, on former occasions he had opposed the removal of the Royal Naval College from Portsmouth to Greenwich. He still regretted, that the Royal Hospital there was no longer to be approrpriated as its Foundress intended—to aged and infirm seamen; he also still held to the opinion that if sufficient buildings could have been found at Portsmouth, it would have been better to have had the tuition of naval officers given there, with all its naval activity and gunnery instruction so conveniently present. But it was due to the right hon. Gentleman to say that he and Lis Colleagues deserved great credit for the magnificent Naval School they had created at Greenwich. To them and to Admiral Sir Cooper Key, whom they had selected for its head, the country and the profession owed a debt of gratitude; and he willingly bore testimony
 1486
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he must call his right hon. Friend's attention to the fact that he had given him no reply to the appeal which he made to him on behalf of the Royal Marines. He should not recapitulate the arguments he used to persuade him to restore the rank of major to the gallant corps, but he trusted he would say something to allay the feeling of dissatisfaction which existed in consequence of that boon being withheld from the Marines, after being granted to the Loyal Engineers and Royal Artillery.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, it would be necessary, when the
 1494
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  asked the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education. When the Annual Report of that Department will be ready for presentation and for delivery to Members; on what day he proposes to move the Education Vote in Committee of Supply; and, whether he can give the House any assurance that the Annual Report will be presented at an earlier period in future Sessions, so that it may be in the hands of Members before the debate on the Education Estimates?
 MR. GILPIN (for Sir EDWARD WATKIN)  asked Mr. Attorney General. Whether Articles 70 to 74, inclusive, of the "Code Civile" of Lower Canada, respecting the registration—the register being in duplicate, and there being power to those so signing to demand certified extracts from the register—of persons making "profession by solemn and perpetual vows," now form part of the General Law of the Dominion of Canada; or, if not if they attach solely to the Catholic Province of Quebec?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the articles of the Civil Code of Lower Canada referred to in the Question of the hon. Member provide for the registration, with certain formalities, of the names, ages, and other particulars of all persons making profession, by solemn and perpetual vows, in religious communities in Lower Canada. That Code came into operation in 1866, and though it had the effect of law given to it by the Legislature of the then united Province, it affected Lower Canada alone. The Imperial Act constituting the Dominion of Canada was passed in 1867. Under that Act, the part of the then Province of Canada, which had formerly constituted the Province of Lower Canada, was again formed into a separate Province, under the name of the Province of Quebec. That Act provided a Legislature for the Dominion, and also separate Legislatures for the several constituent Provinces, and specified the matters which were to be the subjects of legislation by such respective Legislatures. The "articles of the Civil Code having relation to acts of religious profession do not now form part of the general law of the Dominion of Canada, but affect solely the Province of Quebec.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the question of the registration of
 1497
 MR. SULLIVAN  submitted that this was no question of competition between Scotland and Ireland, and he deprecated any such issue being raised. He regretted that the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) should have put forward an argument which, if it amounted to anything at all, amounted to grudging Ireland the concession claimed by this Motion. The fact was, that the Scotch fisheries had been wafted to prosperity by bounties, aids, and grants from the Imperial Exchequer, while Ireland was absolutely repressed and kept down, and now for the Scotch to say—"Let there be no more bounties, but free trade," amounted to this—"We have got the start; we are half way to the goal; let Ireland overtake us if she can." Suppose two yachts were to race from Dover to Cape Clear, and that one of them had been towed by a steam-tug to the Land's End, while the other was left beating against head winds in the Channel, would it be a fair start then? Would it be exactly fair of the first to object to any assistance being given the less-favoured craft, and say—"Let us both compete just as we are?" From the Report of a Government official, it appeared that for more than 280 years Parliament, at the instance of English fishery owners, had interposed to prevent the exercise of this industry in Ireland; and that at one period the Scotch fishermen, being in want, received advances on their own note, which they had not been called upon to pay while no loans were made to the Irish fishermen during the same period. He did not believe that Scotland had had a pound too much; but in a naval Empire, in island Kingdoms like ours, a wise Government would carefully con-
 1513
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he merely desired, in answer to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt), to suggest to the hon. Member who had brought this subject forward (Mr. Synan), whether he would really be pursuing a judicious course in pressing the Motion to a division. The right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant had that evening given the proposal as much encouragement as hon. Members could have expected. The right hon. Gentleman, considering the vast number of subjects which he had had to consider.
 1526
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH , in supporting the Motion, said, it was true, as the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney) had stated, that a large proportion of schoolmasters did teach the children something more than the three rudiments in which they were examined by the Inspector. They taught, more or less, geography, history, and grammar. But the hon. Member had failed to point out that while the Code did contemplate a higher examination also—namely, that in the so-called extra subjects, yet comparatively few school teachers presented children for examination in those higher subjects. There was an apparent inducement to them to teach these subjects, for a grant of 3 s s s 1541 s s s s s s s s
 MR. OWEN LEWIS , in rising to call attention to the warning stated to have been given by the Lords Justices of Ireland to the "Flag of Ireland "newspaper, said, he was anxious not to be misunderstood; he did not sympathize with the articles in the paper; he objected to what had been done by the Judges—although, doubtless, acting within the letter of the law—irrespective of the merits of the case as regarded the contents of the articles. Every British subject accused of a crime was entitled to examination and trial in public, and to every opportunity of defending himself; and it was unconstitutional for the functions of counsel, Judge, and juror to be exercised by the same person, as had been done in the case under notice. The conduct of the Government in the affair, too, was unconstitutional and arbitrary, for if the law had been violated, the offender should have been brought to trial, and heard in his own defence—a right enjoyed by the greatest malefactor. That no conviction could be obtained in the case of political prisoners, owing to the prejudices of the juries, he denied, for the Fenian leaders were convicted, as also were certain Dublin journalists in 1867 or 1868. Wherever the case was clearly proved, the Crown could rely on obtaining a conviction, and the Irish people could not be expected to feel respect for the Constitution, if its elementary principles were set aside, when they themselves were concerned. Precept being better than practice, the Government ought to sot the example of scrupulous regard for the letter of the Constitution. If Irishmen were to become as contented
 1550 The Times
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, that, after the result of the division of last evening, he should offer no further opposition to the passing of the measure, though he must take that opportunity of repeating his opinion that the Annuity Fund was the property of those who had contributed to it, and that their claims ought to have been equitably settled by arbitration. He also wished to explain that in the last Parliament, after the litigation upon the subject, he brought the matter before the House, and would have had the support of the then Solicitor General—now Lord Coleridge—were it not that his Lordship had been counsel in the case for the claimants.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that since last Session, no communication had been made by the United States' Government to Her Majesty's Government on the subject referred to in the first part of the Question. With regard to the second part of the Question, a communication had been addressed to the North German Lloyd's Company, and a reply had been received. If the hon. Member would move for the production of the Correspondence, he would consider whether it ought to be laid on the Table; or if he wished, he might see it at the Post Office.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think, Sir it is desirable that the opinion of the House should be taken on the Bill introduced by my hon. Friend, and I do not consider it expedient that there should be an indefinite delay in the expression of that opinion. Therefore, as far as Her Majesty's Government are concerned, they will give every facility to my hon. Friend to bring forward the Bill to-night. He has, no doubt, observed that there are
 1498
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, no regulations exist to secure the provision of lamps in railway carriages when traversing long tunnels other than such as are made by the companies themselves. The Board of Trade never impose such regulations on railway companies, unless required specifically to do so, as in one or two rare instances, by Act of Parliament.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government a Question, of which he had given him private Notice, respecting the course of procedure that night. It appeared from the Totes that Her Majesty's Government proposed to take Supply, the Report of Ways and Means, the third reading of the East India Annuity Funds Bill, and Committee of Ways and Means, before the Order for the Second Reading of the Monastic and Conventual Institutions Bill came on. He had postponed the second reading of the Bill for a fortnight, in order to meet the convenience of Her Majesty's Government, and on looking at the Order Book, he found there was a second reading of a Bill put down for every Wednesday to the 15th of July, with the exception of the 3rd of June. Now, he should be sorry to interfere with the Derby Day, and he should not think it proper, after what occurred on the 2nd of July last, to move the second reading of his Bill on any Wednesday, when there was a special reason for the House being thin. He would therefore ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he intends to proceed with the Government Orders that evening, as he had a perfect right to do; and whether he would afford any facilities for bringing on the second reading of the Monastic and Conventual Institutions Bill, considering the importance of the subject and the great interest it excited in the country?
 MR. RITCHIE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in any Bill for the Registration of Firms?
 MR. SEELY  asked the Postmaster General, Whether, since the last Session of Parliament, any communication has been made by the United States' Government to Her Majesty's Government on the subject of a reduction of the postage on letters or of the issuing of postal cards at 1 d
 MR. M'LAREN : My hon. Friend the Member for Limerick County (Mr. Synan) in the Preamble of his Resolution, has contrasted the encouragement given to the Scotch fisheries, as compared with the support given to Irish fisheries; and the disadvantage under which he supposes Ireland to labour, has formed a large part of his interesting speech. My hon. Friend divided his speech into two parts—the present state of things as regards the fisheries, and their by-past condition. Perhaps it may be most convenient to take things as they are, first, and then say a word about the million and a-quarter to which he has referred. My hon. Friend says Scotland gets £15,000 a-year from this House for the encouragement of its fisheries. I shall show from the Estimates of the present year that he has fallen into a great error in that matter. No such sum is granted to Scotland, but very much larger sums are granted to Ireland. I wish to show that distinctly, in order to negative the facts and allegations of my hon. Friend. What then, first of all, is the sum granted to Scotland? In the Civil Service Estimates of the present year you will find that the sum proposed to be granted is nominally £12,475—last year it was a few pounds less. But I must remind the House of the fact
 1506 1507 1508 1509
 MR. SYNAN , in rising to call attention to the neglect of the Irish Fisheries, especially in contrast with the encouragement and support that has been given to the Scotch ones; and to move—
 "That the decay of the Irish Sea Coast Fisheries imperatively calls for the immediate Attention of Her Majesty's Government, and demands the application of the remedies recommended by the Reports of Royal Commissions and of Select Committees, and that this House pledges itself to support any well-considered measure that may be introduced on the subject and conformeth to such recommendations," 1499 Geo 1500 Geo 1501 s d 1502 "Without loans for the purchase and repair of boats and gear were advanced to the fishermen, no great improvement could be expected," and "if much longer time were allowed to elapse before their suggestions were carried out the fishing industry would nearly expire on one-half of the coast." 1503 1504 "To keep the word of promise to the ear. And break it to the hope." 1505
 MR. VERNER  trusted hon. Members opposite would give the Chief Secretary credit for the anxiety which he had shown to grant all reasonable requests, though, unfortunately, having risen early in the debate, he had made a proposal which had not found acceptance with Irish Members. He had some hope that when the right hon. Baronet should
 1529
 MR. COLLINS  said, his hon. Friend who had introduced the subject would not blame him (Mr. Collins) if he declined to follow him into some of the details of his speech; but, as representing a part of Ireland where fisheries could be most advantageously aided and developed, he wished to say, in reply to the speech of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren), that though he did not wish to draw any invidious distinctions between the Scotch and the Irish fisheries, he must remind the hon. Member that there was no basis of comparison by which the condition of the one could be compared with that of the
 1510 s 1511
 MR. GREGORY  said, he thought that, after the course that had been taken by Irish Members, there ought to be some expression of opinion from some independent English Members. Much of the language used to-night was applicable, not to the present Government, but to that which was in power when the Irish Coercion Act was passed. That language had, however, nothing to do with the question before the House, for the Act was passed almost with unanimity, and the late Government thought it necessary, and the House accepted it on their recommendation. Moreover, there was much reason to believe that the present tranquillity of Ireland was secured by the Act being put in operation—["No, no!"]—and if the Government attempted to withdraw the Act from the proclaimed districts, a protest would conic up from everyone charged with the, preservation of the peace in those districts. ["No!"] At all events, the Act was only put in operation in consequence of the representations of those who were responsible for the peace of those districts. The Act having received the assent of the Legislature, was it to be enforced, or was it to remain a dead letter in the hands of the present Government? It should be remembered that the warning of which complaint was made was not for a single isolated Act or expression, but had been called forth by the whole tone and tenor of the newspaper in question. It was an act of mercy towards that journal as well as to other newspapers in Ireland which might follow in the same course. If a newspaper in this country had been proceeded against it would not have been by a warning, but by an indictment against the proprietors.
 MR. MORRIS  hoped the suggestion thrown out by the hon. Member for Donegal (Mr. Conolly), that the question should be again referred to a Select Committee, would not be adopted. They had already had so many inquiries and Reports upon it that the subject was worn threadbare, and the time had now come for the Government to take action to assist in developing that important branch of the resources of Ireland; for it was not fitting that the Inspectors of Fisheries in that country should be driven, as they had been, to appeal for public subscriptions in order to do what ought to be done by the State. He understood, however that those fisher-
 1516
 MR. BRUEN  said, the hon. Member who moved the Amendment put his case so modestly and forcibly that he for one, should support it. In his opinion £20,000 was a very small and moderate sum to ask for the encouragement of Irish fisheries under the circumstances. He therefore trusted that the Chief Secretary would see his way to grant the aid which was asked of the Government. He believed there was a balance now remaining of the money voted for the improvement of harbours in Ireland, which, in his opinion, ought to be devoted to the purpose for which it was granted. He quite agreed with those who insisted on the great advantage which the brand gave to the sale of fish in foreign countries, and he hoped that, while it would not be taken away from Scotland, its benefits would be extended to Ireland.
 MR. BUTT  said, he was ready to admit that the right hon. Baronet would find considerable difficulty in dealing with this Reproductive Loan Fund, inasmuch as its application was not only limited to 10 counties, but it was divided into 10 parts, each of which formed a rust for a particular county. The whole sum available for general purposes out of this fund was only £5,000, and, no doubt, there would be strong objections on the part of some of the counties interested, to the fund being applied to other than its proper purpose. Moreover, last week he had put a Notice on the Paper, of his intention to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to determine; how the fund should be applied. It had been his intention to propose to place upon the Committee a Member for each of the 10 counties interested, so that they might have arrived at some agreement as to the mode in which the available sum should be made use of. He denied that the Resolution before the House was a vague and unsatisfactory one. The first part of it stated that the decay of the Irish fisheries imperatively called for the immediate attention of Her Majesty's Government, and after what had been stated by the
 1524 1525
 MR. BUTT  said, it was somewhat unfortunate that no one had brought before the House the articles in consequence of which the warning was given. The real question was, whether those articles were justifiable or not. He could, in a sense, speak disinterestedly on the point, because the articles contained an attack upon himself. One of them was a reply to Mr. Froude, and said that Irish rebels had fought bravely. That, he believed, was a fact which few would deny. At the same time, he admitted the writer ought not to have described the Queen as "a foreign lady." Still, that expression would have passed unnoticed, but for the publicity given to it by the warning. It was worthy of re-mark that the leading Conservative paper in Ireland,  The Dublin Evening Mail 1556 1557 The Flag of Ireland
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  trusted that the Government would be able to see their way to expend some money upon the repair of the harbour of Ardglass which lay on the coast of Antrim. A great deal had already been effected by private enterprise, and if properly completed, the result would be not merely a considerable benefit to the fishery along the neighbouring coast, but the place would also become valuable as a harbour of refuge on what was at certain seasons of the year a very dangerous coast.
 MR. YEAMAN  said, he looked upon that as a most important question which hon. Members had not taken so broad a view of as it deserved. With regard to the pecuniary assistance given to Scotland to promote her industry in her fisheries, it ceased 45 years ago and her fisheries were now in such a prosperous condition that she did not require any further bounty from the State. Considering the present position of fisheries in Ireland, he thought it was incumbent on the Government of the country that these fisheries should be cultivated to such an extent as would enable them to compete successfully with the Scotch fisheries, for it should be a matter for
 1527
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , in reply, said, that the measure would soon be introduced in the House of Lords He had
 1496
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he perfectly remembered what occurred in that House when the Peace Preservation Act of 1870 was introduced by one of the most liberal Members who ever sat in Parliament, Mr. Chichester Fortescue. At that period an extraordinary amount of agrarian crime existed in Ireland; the Bill was aimed primarily at that; but, because agrarian crime was found to be often instigated and excited by newspaper articles in Ireland, clauses were introduced for the purpose of enabling the Government to prevent the diffusion of writings calculated to lead to such results. The Government of that day had no desire to interfere with the freedom of the Press; what they desired was to prevent the Press from taking means for the dissemination of incitements which might lead to the commission of the very offences at which the rest of the Bill was aimed. What were
 1558 1559
 MR. RONAYNE  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland to say that the notice had boon given in kindness and consideration—in fact, as a warning—that if a similar course was persisted in, it would be followed by a legal prosecution. If that were so, he for one would not object, especially if it were conducted in a constitutional manner; but if the notice was to be followed by a policeman from the Castle with a waggon to take off the presses and types of the establishment, he could not see where the kindness was. There was no denying that disaffection and sedition existed in Ireland, and one principal cause of that was the existence and enforcement of laws of a coercive character. The whole history of that country was a vicious circle of coercion and sedition—sedition because of coercion and coercion because of sedition, and there was no instance of a concession having been made to Ireland except it was wrung from this country by a display of disaffection and disloyalty. That was the case in 1782. upon the declaration of Irish independence. Catholic Emancipation had been wrung from the Government of the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel by the terror inspired by the Clare election and the
 1562
 MR. DIGBY  regretted to find that on that occasion the loyalty of Irish Members had been impugned, not directly, but by implication, and he gladly seized the opportunity of expressing in the British House of Commons his titter condemnation of the writing in some of the Irish newspapers. He deplored their language, and fell the most profound contempt for it. When he heard the Chief Secretary for Ireland quote expressions in which the writers exulted in the humiliation of the Imperial Forces and the defeat even of their own countrymen—for Irish soldiers served in the Queen's Army—he could not endure the language such infamous writers employed. But he was sorry the debate had occurred. Why should they question the loyal allegiance of Home Rulers? He could truly say that his motive in joining that body was, that he thought it offered an opportunity of
 1561
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said, he did not rise, as a Scotch Member, to draw any comparison between the grants to Scotland and those to Ireland for their fisheries. The remarks he intended to make would be in the capacity of having had the honour of being Chairman of a Royal Commission which examined into the herring fisheries of the British coast. In the inquiries of that Commission one thing of all others became most clear, and that was that the fisheries of the British coasts prospered more the less the Government did for them, and the less legislative restrictions prevailed. As the result of their inquiries, the Commission recommended the repeal of all the Acts of Parliament, which gave a sort of parental protection to the fishermen of the different coasts for close time, the regulation of the mesh of nets, the modes of using them as drift nets or seines, and other supposed methods of protecting the fisheries; and therefore, if the demands of the Irish Members on the
 1517
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING , as representing one of the counties which would be seriously affected by the proposition, expressed his surprise and indignation at the lame and impotent suggestion of the Chief Secretary for Ireland, that the surplus Famine Fund, raised in 1822, and now devoted to the improvement of agriculture in Ireland, should be applied to the improvement of the deep-sea fisheries of that country. He should oppose it in every possible way. The Government had at their disposal £311,000, and surely a sum, by way of a loan, of £20,000 would not be much as an advance in aid of the industry of the people in the Irish fisheries.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he thought there could be no doubt as to the importance to Ireland, and, indeed, to the United Kingdom, of the question which the hon. Member for Limerick County (Mr. Synan) had brought before the House, and he was surprised that it should have been allowed to sleep for so many years. If any country had a mine of wealth under its soil, Ireland had one under its waters; and he had seen it stated that there were places, such as Galway Bay, where an equal amount of land covered with growing crops would not produce a value equal to that which might be raised from the sea. It appeared, however, that the fishermen of Ireland had not been able to make use of the advantages which nature had thus bestowed upon their
 1518 1519 1520 1521 1522 1523
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he could not complain of any want of moderation and fairness in the speech of the hon. Member for Carlow Borough (Mr. Owen Lewis), He presumed the subject had been brought forward rather in order to call attention to the circumstances than with any serious wish to obtain the Papers to which the Notice of Motion of the hon. Member referred. As regarded the newspaper itself, it would probably be hardly worth while to have its contents printed for the information of the House, while the warning which had been served was simply a copy of the notice which had been given on similar occasions by the late Government. It seemed to him that the speech of the hon. Gentleman
 1551 Flag of Ireland 1552 Flag of Ireland The Flay of Ireland done "He trusted the Government would listen to the suggestion that they should first give a warning to the newspaper proprietor before proceeding to the extremity of seizing the plant of the newspaper. This arrangement would have one good effect; a Government would I hesitate long before taking the extreme course, but a warning would be a more simple matter, and could be given without so much deliberation.
 1553 Hansard The Flag of Ireland
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  contended that the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had placed before the House a totally wrong issue. That the expression complained of was one which ought not to have been used was the opinion of the people of Ireland themselves, and he protested against its being said that it received the smallest sanction or sympathy either from them or any hon. Member from Ireland in that House. At the same time he regretted that the words of the article itself had not been laid before the House so that they might better determine whether the course adopted by the officers of the Government was merited. What he objected to was, that the law should be put in force by such means instead of appealing to the usual constitutional tribunals. The right hon. Gentleman also alleged that the warning-was given in a friendly spirit to the newspaper; but did he not rather mean to say that on the commission of the next offence an arbitrary use would be made of the law, that the proprietor's property would be seized, and confiscated without trial before a jury. He would
 1560
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  went on to say, that when a question affecting the Irish Press was brought forward, hon. Gentlemen opposite attempted to make hon. Members sit down, and laughed at the principle of a free Press in the person of its humble advocate. For the last four or five years he had, with other hon. Gentlemen, attempted to oppose certain measures introduced by the late Government, and as he had ventured in the most respectful manner to express the opinions of the people of his country, he could
 1555
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, the observations they had just listened to were such as they might have expected to hear at the period when there were difficulties in Ireland, and when strong-expressions were uttered throughout the country. At the present time, however, they sounded strange, for the condition of Ireland was now, and had been for the last twelve months, notoriously quiet. The right hon. Gentleman had not brought forward a single truth—nor even a single untruth, to warrant the step which had been taken, and which
 1554 The Flag of Ireland The Irishman The Nation Laughter Laughter Laughter
 MR. R. W. DUFF  said, he thought the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) had quite disposed of the fallacy that Scotland got £15,000 a year for the encouragement of the fisheries. His hon. Friend had conclusively shown that, although the sum of £12,475 was set down in the Estimates of the present year for Scotch fisheries, there was a note appended, stating that there was a sum of £7,000 received on account of the herring brand. What was actually voted yearly for Scotch piers and harbours was £3,000. This he considered a very inadequate sum. Some years ago a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into the subject, and it recommended that the grant should be increased to £6,000. In 1865 he had the honour of introducing a Bill, the object of which was to carry out their recommendations. He was not successful, and he did not remember receiving much support from his hon. Friends from Ireland. As to the herring brand, he might say a word or two. His constituents were very much interested in the herring trade, and he had taken a deal of trouble to ascertain their opinion in regard to the brand. He found there was a great deal of variance as to its value, and a great deal to be said on
 1515 d
 MR. REID  said, that after the able, eloquent, and exhaustive speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Maidstone (Sir John Lubbock) he should not trespass upon the time of the House with many observations of his own; he would confine his remarks to the importance of making elementary education a necessity. At present the children attending the schools of the country were so imperfectly educated that very soon after they ceased school attendance, the little they had acquired there vanished and was lost. The reason why what they were taught did not take sufficient hold on them was, that it was not imparted in a sufficiently interesting way, in consequence of reading, writing, and arithmetic being taught simply and alone; and their interest was not excited, as would be the case if the extra subjects to which the hon. Baronet had alluded were made part and parcel of their elementary education instead of being treated as extras. That the result was unsatisfactory was shown by the statistics of the Education Department. A Report issued a year ago showed that the total number of children presented for examination it 1872 was 661,589, and out of these only 118,799, or 18 per cent. were presented it Standards IV. to VI., and only 65,796 passed without failure in any subject. The question was, what they should do in order
 1538
 MR. CONOLLY  denied the justice of the remark made by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He thought it could not truly be said that the Conservative party in Ireland had been neglectful either of the national or political interests of that country. As regarded the political interests of Ireland, he had put in the forefront of his address to his constituents that, whatever happened, he would never give any support to that most empty of all nostrums—"Home Rule." In respect to the material interests of Ireland, he found himself unable the other evening to vote with the hon. Member for Limerick County and his Friends, when they wanted a pull at the Imperial Exchequer; but as the same obstacles did not exist in this case as in that of the railways, and as he had for a number of years thought that a very good case had been made out for the grant now advocated by the hon. Member, he should be happy to give him his support. He had considerable acquaintance with the coasts of Ireland, and he might inform the House that the fisheries in the Bay of Donegal had been carried on at certain times with no little success, owing to the enormous supply of fish; but that success, he was sorry to say, had been of a very shifting character. No less than six different attempts had been made on the part of different companies, and although they partially succeeded, yet such was the tempestuous character of that coast that none of those companies were able to carry on their business with real profit for more than four or five years. There
 1514
 MR. EVANS  said, that he was the manager of schools in the country, in which they had introduced one or more of these extra subjects, and he believed that they had thereby raised and improved the education of the children. He would therefore suggest that it was a matter worthy of the attention of the Education Department, whether something could not be done in the direction recommended by the hon. Baronet the Member for Maidstone.
 MR. SALT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, as the contribution from the Consolidated Fund towards the cost of the County Police is about to be doubled, he will propose some improved regulations with respect to the enlistment, the resignation, and the superannuation allowances of the men of that Force?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he had listened with great pleasure to the speech of his noble Friend the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, and was glad to find that there was a perfect union of principle between them as to the main features of
 1546 1547 1548 s s s s d d s s s 1549
 MR. RATHBONE  thought it was not quite apparent to schoolmasters that teaching extra subjects would pay them for their extra trouble; but he might mention that after a complete investigation at Liverpool, the best masters showed that the extra subjects did pay them, and that such teaching raised the general intelligence of the school, and brought the children up to a higher
 MR. W. SHAW  said, there was no doubt the subject under consideration was a difficult one to deal with practically. He agreed with the hon. Member for Cork County (Mr. M'Carthy Downing) in protesting against the alienation of the surplus Famine Fund to the fostering of the deep-sea fisheries. The Reproductive Loan Fund had hitherto been allocated to most useful purposes, and purposes for which they could not raise funds by local taxation. They had for some years a grant from this fund for flax instructors, who were very useful, and also in several country towns in aid of private subscriptions for the erection of public halls, which but for this fund could not have been erected. As one who had endeavoured to do something for the improvement of the Irish fisheries, he wished to be allowed to say that without the brand, Irish could not compete with Scotch herrings. He knew of Scotch herrings being brought over and sold in Dublin in preference to Irish herrings. He agreed with those who held that small loans to the fishermen would be useful. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the London University (Mr. Lowe) had sneered in Glasgow at the idea of Irish priests becoming security for the repayment of these loans. Now he happened to belong to a body which was in the habit of lending small sums to farmers, and in many cases they were guided by the advice and opinion of those at whom the right hon. Gentleman had sneered, and in scarcely a single instance had they been misled. If a fund of £20,000 was left in the hands of Commissioners in Dublin, it could be lent with perfect safety and with the greatest benefit to the fisheries, and he would cordially support such a course of proceeding. Something also should be done in the way of an extension of the railway system to remedy the difficulties of transport which stood in the way of bringing to market the fish taken on the south-west and west coasts of Ireland.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  asked Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, When the Judicature Bill (Ireland) will be introduced: whether it will be introduced in this or the other House of Parliament; and, whether the heads of the proposed Bill have been submitted to Her Majesty's Judges in Ireland for their suggestions and approval?
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he took as great an interest in the spread of education as any hon. Member in the House; but it was necessary that in a matter of this kind they should proceed step by step, and not require children to run before they were able to walk. They had two great difficulties to contend with in the matter. The first was the difficulty of inducing the children to go to school, and the second was the difficulty of keeping them there a sufficient time to give them an amount of instruction which would enable them to carry their education further, should they desire it, when they went out into the world. The first of these difficulties would be somewhat removed when the Act in respect to children employed in agriculture came into force; but with respect to the second difficulty they had to study the habits of the people and consider the views entertained by the parents. If the children were to be detained at school the parents would be deprived of the amount of family assistance which the labour of those children now brought them in, and it was necessary to show them that they were young to obtain a more than corresponding advantage. He quite agreed
 1539 s 1540
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Baronet that he must confine his remarks to the Question before the House and address them to the Chair.
 MR. AGG-GARDNER  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If any regulations exist to secure the provision of lamps in Railway carriages when traversing long tunnels; and, if not, whether he would cause or sanction the adoption of some measure to protect the public from the inconvenience and danger resulting from the absence of such provision?
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  said, that though he was precluded by the division which had just occurred from submitting to the House the Resolution of which he had given Notice, he trusted he might be permitted to call its attention to the subject. That Notice was as follows:—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable to modify the Code of Regulations issued by the. Committee of the Privy Council in such a manner as to give more encouragement to the teaching of History, Geography, Elementary Social Economy, and the other so-called extra subjects, in the Elementary Schools of the Country." s 1532 s s s s s "As far as the pecuniary interests of the managers were concerned, that might, under existing regulations, be quite right, but the loss to the children was irreparable. "To inquire into the provisions for giving instruction in theoretical and applied science to the industrial classes, with special reference to what was done in foreign schools." 1533 "Many witnesses had expressed the opinion that the Revised Code had diminished the efficiency of elementary education; that every witness who was acquainted with foreign schools considered that the rapid progress which was being made in Germany, Switzerland, and Belgium, was duo in great measure to the elementary instruction which was acquired by the working population in the elementary schools," "That nothing more is required, and that nothing less will suffice, in order that we may retain the position which we now hold in the van of all industrial nations." "That elementary instruction in drawing, in physical geography, and in the phenomena of nature should be given in elementary schools." 1534 "The savage," says Professor Huxley. "knows the hearing of every hill and mountain range, the directions and junctions of all the streams, the situation of each tract characterized by peculiar vegetation, not only within the area he has himself traversed, but perhaps for a hundred miles around it. His acute observation enables him to detect the slightest undulations of the surface, the various changes of subsoil, and alterations in the character of the vegetation that would be quite imperceptible to a stranger. His eye is always open to the direction in which he is going; the mossy side of trees, the presence of certain plants under the shade of rocks, the morning and evening flight of birds, are to him indications of direction almost as sure as the sun in the heavens." 1535 1536 1537
 SIR JOSEPH M'KENNA  said, the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr.
 1563
 SIR JOSEPH M'KENNA  thought the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M Laren) had not stated his case fairly. When the question of branding in Scotland was under consideration, the people of that country opposed its abolition, and volunteered to pay about £7,000 a-year for the continuance of the use of the Government
 1512
 VISCOUNT SANDON , in reply, said, that the Annual Report of the Department would probably be in the hands of Members before the end of the month. He was afraid he could not say definitely on what day he should be able to move the Education Estimates, but anyhow it would not be sooner than Monday, the 11th instant, but he would give due Notice when it would be done. In future Sessions he hoped the Education Report would be ready by the end of May at the latest, and his hon. Friend was doubtless aware that the Education Estimates were hardly ever brought forward before that period.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  thanked the hon. Baronet the Member for Maidstone (Sir John Lubbock) for the very able and temperate manner in which he had brought forward this interesting subject. It was quite true that he himself and the Government had a warm feeling in favour of doing all they could to promote the noble system of elementary education which his right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Forster) had so well inaugurated. Mr. Corry—a name never mentioned in that House without respect—was one of the first who moved very zealously in the Education Board on behalf of those extra subjects. The Code had to be settled within three weeks or a month of the time when the Lord President and himself entered
 1542 1543 1544 1545
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply said, that he had inquired into the subject
 1581
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the First Commissioner of Works, What steps he proposes to take with regard to the non-fulfilment of the contract entered into two years ago by Mr. Collman the upholsterer for the completion of the Wellington monument?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : I believe, Sir, the hon. Member for Rochester was not in his place the other evening when the Committee of Supply voted the sum of £500 towards the completion of this long delayed Wellington Monument. At the same time, I asked for and obtained a vote of confidence while I renewed negotiations with Mr. Stevens and with the gentleman to whom the late Treasury entrusted the carrying on of this work. I pledged myself then, and I renew the pledge now, that before the end of the Session. I will let hon. Members know whether my efforts have been successful or not. Under those circumstances, I hope neither the House nor the hon. Member will deem me guilty of discourtesy if, at the present time, I refrain from giving any more definite answer to this Question.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he would, on a future occasion, call attention to the subject.
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the report is correct that the office of Consul at Cairo, which has hitherto been so ably filled by Mr. Rogers, has been abolished; and, if it has, upon what ground has the abolition taken place, and how the Government proposes to avail itself in future of Mr. Rogers's services?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, owing to the small sum of money placed at his disposal for the prosecution of the Ordnance Survey, he was afraid he could not hold out any hope that the survey of the county of Merioneth would be soon completed.
 MR. HANBURY , in moving—
 "That this House is of opinion that, in the interests of civilization and commerce, it would not now he deniable to withdraw from the administration of the affairs of the Gold Coast," 1593
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS , in seconding the Motion, said, that while agreeing entirely with his hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth (Mr. Hanbury) that the Government was inextricably involved in the responsibilities they had assumed on the Gold Coast, he could not but think that people out-of-doors rather seriously under-rated the difficulties of the position. No doubt they were very proud of the achievements of Sir Garnet Wolseley, and the foresight and courage which had been displayed by his officers and men; but they were rather in danger of forgetting the lessons of the past, and of greatly under-rating the perils of the future. It might be said Sir Garnet Wolseley had crushed these Ashantees, and nothing more would be heard of them; but history repeated itself. So it was said some half-century ago. After a successful campaign in 1826 it was said the Ashantees had been effectually put down; but in four short years afterwards the state of affairs became so desperate that the Government resolved to retire from the Gold Coast altogether. He was not one who was disposed to recede from the responsibilities we had taken upon ourselves in that region; but at the same time we ought to look those responsibilities fully in the face, for we had no guarantee that history would not again repeat itself, He believed that our responsibilities were due in a very great degree to the policy pursued by the British Government, which had not only patronized the West African Slave Trade for two centuries, and thereby degraded the tribes we had taken under our protection, but had afterwards enervated them by teaching them to cower under the shelter of our forts. That was the decided opinion expressed by Colonel Harley in a despatch to Lord Kimberley of April in last year, and the Government must therefore gravely consider the responsibilities they had undertaken with reference to the feeble and dastardly tribes we had taken under our Imperial wing. We could not leave the friendly native tribes exposed to
 1594 1595 1596 1597
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, he was glad that the skilful arrangement of the Business of the House by the Prime Minister had enabled them to come to a fair issue upon this subject. The statements contained in the speech of the hon. Member opposite who had brought this subject forward (Mr. Hanbury). conclusively proved to his mind that our stay on the Gold Coast was not necessary in the interests either of civilization or commerce. He had, therefore, given Notice of an Amendment to the hon. Gentleman's Motion—namely, to leave out all the words after the words "commerce," and to insert the words—
 "It is desirable to withdraw from all equivocal and entangling engagements with the tribes inhabiting the Gold Coast." 1598 "I doubt whether it was wise to take over Dutch forts, and I greatly doubt whether any man in or out of the Colonial Office exactly knows or could define the limits of our authority and of our responsibility in regard to the tribes included within the protected territory." 1599 1600 "On no account will we become English; and if Governor Ussher has ordered Mr. Bartels only to tell us that, he had better hold Ins peace. The Elminas will serve under the Dutch Hag, but no other. We have suffered so much from the exchange of territory that we are tired and exhausted. Surely a man can be sold only once!" "England had become so eager for conflict, that the idea of desisting from the war merely because the war had ceased to he necessary, was not tolerable to the people." "The King of France with twenty thousand men, Marched up a hill and then marched down again." 1601 1602 "Like David," said the preacher, "the British soldiers went out to light from a sense of duty, without pausing to make any comparisons between their own strength and that of the for. When the English Army witnessed the superstitions and atrocities which had been committed in that city of murder (Coomassic), they must have, felt, like David, that it was God's battle they were fighting, and that the Lord of the whole earth must necessarily conquer. In burning Coomassic they overthrew one of the strongholds of the devil, and opened a channel for the inroads of Christianity." The Daily Telegraph 1603
 MR. ROEBUCK  seconded the Motion.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that the House would not be surprised that he had been anxious to rise with as little delay as possible, in order to answer the charges which had been made against the Government, of whose Colonial policy he was lately the exponent in the House of Commons. He did not, indeed, complain of the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth (Mr. Hanbury), who moved
 1604 "Lastly, the opportunity should not be lost for putting an end, if possible, to the human sacrifices and the slave-hunting, which, with other barbarities, prevail in the Ashantee kingdom." 1605 "That it is not possible to withdraw the British government, wholly or immediately, from any settlements or engagements on the West African Coast." "That all further extension of territory or assumption of government, or now treaties offering any protection to native tribes, would he inexpedient: and that the object of our policy should he to encourage in the natives the exercise of those qualities which may render it possible for us more and more to transfer to them the administration of all the governments, with a view to our ultimate withdrawal from all, except, probably, Sierra Leone." "That this policy of non-extension admits of no exception, as regards new settlements, but cannot amount to an absolute prohibition of measures which, in peculiar cases, may be necessary for the more efficient and economical administration of the settlements we already possess." 1606 1607 "The Dutch—the only other European Power remaining on this coast besides the English—hold forts intermixed with the English and interfering with their government." "On the Gold Coast there is no possibility of raising a sufficient revenue while the Dutch remain and thwart our policy." 1608 "I regard the acquisition of St. George d'Elmina by Her Majesty's Government as one of the most important, and, as I feel convinced, one of the most successful steps which has ever been taken to promote commerce and civilization in "West Africa." 1609 1610 "Does the Netherlands Government pay any tribute to the King of Ashantee, or has he any recognized or other claim upon the people or territory of Elmina?" "That the letter in which he had claimed tribute on account of Elmina was totally misrepresented on the part of parties intrusted with the writing and dictating it that he only meant board wages, or salary, and not tribute by right of arms from the Dutch Government, and that as to his letter to Mr. Ussher concerning the Elmina fort he 'must now write that the whole is a mistake.'" 1611 "His Lordship will perceive that the King of Ashantee claims Elmina as his own by right, and it is admitted that an annual payment o£ about £80 (which he represents as tribute) has long been paid him. Lord Kimberley considers it necessary, before proceeding further with the Convention, that the Dutch Government should procure, by such means as they think fit, the renunciation of the claim of the King of Ashantee to Elmina, else this Government may find itself involved in a war with the Ashantees." "You will perceive that Her Majesty's Government require that the claims of the King of Ashantee to Elmina as his own by right, should be settled by the Motherlands Government before the Convention for the transfer is concluded, and that if this claim is renounced, they would not object to grant to the King of Ashantee an annual stipend, to be paid by the Government of the Gold Coast, as an inducement to him to maintain peace and to encourage trade, and they would readily facilitate the direct access to the sea of the Ashantecs for purposes of trade, under such conditions as might be required for the security of the inhabitants of the coast." "I wish you to consider whether, on the occasion of the transfer of the Elmina forts to the British Government, it may not be advisable to make some addition to the stipend paid to the King of Ashantee, on condition that he abstains from aggression upon the tribes under British protection, and give no encouragement to attempts to stir up had feeling among the Elminas against the British Government." 1612 "By the enclosed report from Mr. Bartels, your Excellency will perceive that the King's party is the only one likely to be troublesome, and that by far the greater portion of the town is in our favour." "Although peace is not arrived at, the road to Elmina is quite safe and the Fantees are behaving well and with moderation. But I do not think they would for a moment entertain the question of peace apart from, the tranfer." "I can truly say that eight-tenths of the entire population of Elmina are well disposed to become English and the remainder can be reasoned into it." 1613 ad interim "Her Majesty's 'Government have no intention of assuming a British Protectorate over those native tribes without their consent. It is probable that the natives of Denkera and the two Wassaws, who were formerly under the British Protectorate before the exchange of foils, may be desirous of becoming so again: but I wish to call your particular attention to the Elminas, a small tribe numbering about 12,000 or 14,000, in the immediate neighbourhood of the Dutch fort of St. George d'Elmina. The Elminas have hitherto been under the protection of the Dutch, and are also in alliance with the King of Ashantee. The position of affairs with regard to this tribe will require your earliest and most serious attention. They should be distinctly told that they will not he required to place themselves under British protection against their will. The objects which Her Majesty's Government have throughout had in view in negotiating this Treaty are not the acquisition of territory or the extension of the British power, but the maintenance of tranquillity and the promotion of peaceful commerce on the coast on will on no account employ force to compel the natives to acquiesce in the transfer of the forts, and if you should find that the attempt to assume possession of the forts on the part of the British authorities would probably be followed by resistance on the part of the surrounding native tribes, you will not accept the transfer of the forts, but will report the circumstances to Her Majesty's Government and await further instructions." "Intelligence had been received by the Dutch Government from Elmina that, a great change
 1614 1615 "His conviction was, that if the Conservatives had been in power during the last six months there would have been no Ashantee War, and he would toll them why. Their Friend and Colleague, Mr. Pope Hennessy, was Governor o£ the Gold Coast, and conducted the exchange of the Dutch territory to England, making the English the only European Power on that Coast. When the English took the Dutch territory, they took the. Dutch liabilities to Ashantee, and it was most unwise of the English to side with
 1616 1617 The Standard 1618 "Now, it was easy to conceive that the King of Ashantee, having already a grudge against the British Government, was excited to the utmost when the British Power was established on the whole Gold Coast. Not that he is in want of a seaport, for the Ashantee traders went always to Cape Coast and Azamaboc to buy their necessaries, and very seldom came to Elmina for this purpose. But the origin of this war must he chiefly attributed to the Kind's desire to avenge the defeat of Doodowa and to get back the authority over Assin and Denkera." 1619 "The duty of defending the extensive territory included in the Protectorate can only be satisfactorily discharged it the Chiefs to whom it belongs are united and resolute in their own defence. The proper course, therefore, is to take every possible means for bringing the Chiefs to au united and decided system of defence, and for tins purpose to give them advice. I to supply them judiciously with military stores, and in concert with the officer in command of the Forces, to furnish them with such assistance he may be able to afford without exposing Ms officers and men to any protracted residence in the interior, especially at the unhealthy season, "ad without weakening his Forces upon the Coast so as to endanger the safely of the Settlements themselves." 1620 quasi 1621 physique morale 1622 1623 1624 1625 one
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he agreed with many of the concluding remarks of his right hon. Friend, and believed that the Government would gather strength from
 1626 1627 1628
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he was desirous to say a few words in order to express a view which had not yet been stated in the debate, but which, although he was not authorized to speak on behalf of any other hon. Members, he was convinced was entertained by many. He was quite willing to concede to his right hon. Friend the late Under Secretary of State for the Colonies (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) that the late Government had displayed great ability and energy with respect to all the matters under discussion. But the more fully that was admitted, the clearer it became how desirable it was to terminate, as
 1629
 SIR WILLIAM EDMONSTONE  said, that as he had been off and on the Coast, having been the officer in command of the West Coast of Africa for several years, he wished to enter a protest against the remarks of the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir Wilfrid Lawson), and the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. J. Holms). It was quite evident that we must retain a position on the Gold Coast, and not leave the merchants established there to
 1630
 MR. RICHARD , in supporting the I Amendment of the hon. Baronet the
 1631 1632 1633 1634 1635 1636 1637
 MR. ALDERMAN W. M'ARTHUR said, he had listened with much interest and with some surprise to the speech of his hon. Friend who had just sat down (Mr. Richard.) The hon. Member was known as the Secretary of the Peace Preservation Society, and as an advocate for arbitration. He would go along with him in advocating the interests of peace so far as they were consistent with national dignity and honour; but he could not be an advocate for peace at any price, and he thought the war which had now happily terminated was a war which we could not possibly avoid, and in which we were not the aggressors. We did not go to Ashantee in order to enforce any treaty, nor to subdue its King for the mere sake of conquest. The King of Ashantee was the aggressor, and we were bound, consistently with the honour and dignity of the country, to repel his aggression and carry the war into his territory. His hon. Friend had asserted that we were to blame in connection with the cession of Elmina from the Dutch to our Government; but the views of the late Government on that subject had been, he (Mr. Alderman M'Arthur) thought, most successfully
 1638 1639 1640
 MR. MUNTZ  thought that nothing would be more contemptible or more cruel than to withdraw from the Gold Coast, in the affairs of which we were so deeply interested, in order simply to save a few thousands of money. The question, however, was, whether we should enter into new treaties without first submitting them to the House of Commons, or whether we should be continually exposed to war, arising from the fact of a Minister having entered into treaties on his own responsibility. It certainly seemed extraordinary that in the teeth of the Resolution of the Committee of 1865 the Government should have thought fit to enter into a new Treaty with the King of the Netherlands by which we took upon ourselves all the burden of ruling the coast which was under the control of the Dutch, without making
 1641 1642
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, he should not have risen but that he wished to correct an unintentional misrepresentation put forward by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) in the remark he had made as to the shelling of Elmina. The hon. Gentleman said, that Colonel Harley shelled Elmina, and that his doing so was the cause of the late Ashantee War. Now, that was not so. In February, 1873, in the midst of negotiations, without warning, the tide of Ashantee invasion flowed into the Protectorate. Colonel Harley assembled a force of Fantees and went in April to Mansu to meet the enemy. He sustained a disastrous defeat, and was driven back to Cape Coast Castle. He wrote home, and early in May, Colonel Festing, with 110 marines, was sent out, and arrived at Cape Coast Castle on the 7th of June. With that energy and. heroism for which he was distinguished, he and Lieutenant Wells—whose early death we had since to lament—and not Colonel Harley, shelled Elmina, killing, as was said, many thousands of the Ashantees, and obtained an important victory. With regard to the conduct of the Government, however, he had already expressed
 1643
 MR. KLNNAIRD  thought that the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Alderman M 'Arthur) had sufficiently vindicated the missionaries from the reflections which had been cast upon them. As to the climate of the Gold Coast, its unhealthiness might, he believed, be much mitigated by proper sanitary arrangements. He hoped that the Government at this critical moment: would employ Sir John Glover—who had shown himself fully competent, for the task, and had the entire confidence of the Natives—in restoring order on that Coast. If peace were once restored there, commerce would probably flow in its ordinary channels. He could not accept the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle as his leader on the question, for he thought the idea of abandoning the territory most absurd. It was impossible they could do so without inflicting the deepest injury on those immediately interested, and without prejudice to the cause they were at that moment pursuing—namely, the suppression of the slave trade.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT  said, that there was a circumstance connected with the late war which had struck him with astonishment. During the whole of the time the Government had at its immediate command two powerful squadrons, maintained at great expense by the country, for the special purpose that they
 1644 1645
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he hoped that the discussion would not close without some expression of opinion on the part of the Government as to what course they intended to take. Statements had been made without due consideration as to our colonial history. There were various countries in the world with which this country had been connected, and others with which she was still connected, each of which they had been obliged to treat in a different manner. First, there was North America, a vast region inhabited by warlike tribes of savages, who eternally made war upon and slaughtered each other, and hon. Members who were eloquent on this subject should consider whether it would have been better for the world had England never gone there and left it to the Natives? or was it in the interests of humanity and civilization that they did so? He thought it could not be disputed that those interests had been served by that colonization. Then there was another part of the world—India. We went to India, and we conquered it, and foreign nations considered that we were deserving of much credit and glory for having done so, and for having maintained our sovereignty there, but it was a question in his mind whether we had been justified in so doing. It was, perhaps, a glorious thing for England to have conquered India; but he could not help thinking that in the interest of humanity we ought never to have been there. Then there was Africa. Africa we found already peopled, and the introduction of European life impossible. There had been talk of our carrying the torch of civilization into Africa, and of our humanizing and Christianizing it; but what change had we effected during 200 years? Why, we had introduced gunpowder, arms, and rum. It might be said we had put down the slave trade; but he had been informed that the consequence had been an almost infinite increase in human sacrifices, owing to the population now pressing on the means of subsistence. They should take that fact into account, in considering the benefit they had conferred upon Africa by the abolition of the slave trade. But, again, it was said that our merchants were very much interested in the Gold Coast Settlements. So they were; but our merchants, he was afraid, were not very cautious or regardful of the principles
 1647
 MR. E. JENKINS  said: Sir, if the intelligent foreigner" had had an opportunity of listening to the debate which has taken place on this question, he might well have said that the British nation is one of the most perverse and inconsistent in the world; for he would hare heard a proposal with regard to a territory one-half of which has been associated with British rule during more than 200 years, with respect to the other half of which the British Government has within two or three years assumed a protectorate, and with regard to the whole of which, during the last few months, a costly and difficult war has been crowned with victory and success—he would have heard an hon. Gentleman get up in this House and propose that
 1648 1649 1650 The Pall Mall Gazette 1651 1652 1653 1654 1655
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, that he rose in reply to the challenge of the two hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him, to state the view which the Government took of the Motion and Amendment now before the House. In so doing, however, he should resist the temptation which had been, dangled before him by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. E. Jenkins), and abstain from availing himself of the opportunity of making any general declaration of the colonial policy of the Government. He hardly thought that would be consistent with Order or with the convenience of the House. Neither was it his intention, in the
 1656 1657 1658 1659 ad valorem 1660 1661 1662
 MR. HANBURY  said, he was quite willing to withdraw the Motion, provided the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir Wilfrid Lawson) would consent to withdraw his Amendment.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he did not wish to detain the House, but thought he might be excused if after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, he appealed to the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle not to persevere in pressing his Amendment. If his hon. Friend felt any doubt before as to what his conduct ought to be, that doubt should be greatly dissipated by the speech of the hon. Gentleman opposite. The hon. Gentleman had not announced any decision on the part of the Government, either in favour of remaining or retiring from the Gold Coast. There was no doubt that the discussion on the subject had been very valuable, and would greatly assist the Government to form an opinion; but to press the House to give their assent to an abstract Resolution, either such as that proposed by the hon. Member for Tam worth or the hon. Member for Carlisle, would not in any degree contribute to the settlement of the question. The question was not to be settled by abstract Resolutions; it was a matter of very difficult practical politics, and upon such a question the House had a right to expect they would receive the guidance of the Government; while the Government had no right to expect that the responsibility of a decision would be taken off its hands. His hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle could not promote his views by pressing his Amendment. If his hon. Friend yielded to the appeal made to him, he would have the satisfaction of knowing that his views had been ably advocated, and that he had received the assurances of the Government that they would receive the most candid consideration.
 1663
 MR. ANDERSON  rose for the purpose of moving a further Amendment, but—
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Motion of the hon. Member for Tamworth and the Amendment of the hon. Member for Carlisle were now before the House. If the House would allow the hon. Member for Carlisle to withdraw his Amendment, another Amendment might be discussed.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, he did not intend to withdraw his Amendment. "What was worth discussing, was worth dividing upon.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, that there was a general feeling in the House, that it was desirable not to divide either upon the Motion, or upon the Amendment; and under these circumstances, in order to get out of the difficulty in which the House was placed by the hon. Mover of the Amendment not withdrawing it, he would beg to move that the debate be adjourned, and if that Motion were earned, the House might appoint that day six months for the resumption of the debate, and so get rid of it altogether.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, he would now propose the 31st of July as the day to which the debate should be adjourned.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, if the hon. Baronet the Member for South Northamptonshire had named a rational day he would not have said a word; but it was obvious that the hon. Baronet intended to prevent this subject coming before the House again. His hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the
 1664
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the subject of our Settlements on the Gold Coast, and the policy which we ought to adopt with regard to those Settlements, is under not only the immediate, but I may say, under the daily, consideration of Her Majesty's Government, and it was only this day that our attention was particularly called to the subject. The moment that we have arrived definitively at conclusions—which I have no hesitation in saying we have arrived at in great scope, though there are certain details yet to be matured—that policy will be brought before the consideration of Parliament by the Minister peculiarly responsible for that Department. Both in this House and in the other House of Parliament there will be opportunities given to canvass that policy, and that will be the legitimate time to call the attention of the House to the subject, and I think it would be better not to enter into any controversies now. I regard the course which the hon. Baronet the Member for South Northamptonshire has taken as the most sensible one, for it has extricated both sides of the House from a position in which we ought not to be involved.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON : After the very satisfactory statement of the Prime Minister. I will not persevere in my intention.
 Mr. MELLON  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is true that vaccine lymph is sup-plied gratuitously to registered medical practitioners in Great Britain by the
 1590
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : It is true, Sir, that the houses alluded to by the hon. Member for Finsbury—namely, those in Abingdon Street and Poet's Corner—were condemned by the Report of a Royal Commission which sat some eight years ago. Their removal, however, as far as I can ascertain, was not advocated from any fear of danger to the Houses of Parliament from tire, and the Government have no intention at the present time of pulling down those houses. I may mention to the hon. Member that while the houses at Poet's Corner are not within 200 feet, there are houses only 90 feet from the Victoria Tower. I may however, tell the hon. Member that I have now under consideration the question of a general fire service with a constant supply of water and under adequate pressure, which would command all the public buildings in the vicinity of Westminster. This service would be in connection with the water supply in St. James's Park, the Serpentine, and Kensington Gardens. The safety of Westminster Abbey, as the hon. Member probably knows, does not rest with my Department, and I fancy it is to the Dean and Chapter the hon. Member should address himself as to the measures which have been taken for the protection of the Abbey.
 MR. KINNAIRD  asked the First Lord of the Treasury. Whether, regard being had to the continued hostilities carried on by the Government of the Netherlands against the Sultan of Acheen, any, and if so what, steps have been taken to carry out the obligations contracted by England towards Acheen under the Treaty of 1819?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  feared that so far from the proposal being a pacific measure, it would be the proclamation of war through out the Church of England, for it would be nothing less than an attack upon one of the great schools within that Church. It had no pretence to be anything except a means of dealing in a sharp and summary way with a certain class of ecclesiastical proceedings—he would not call them offences—which, from their doubtfulness, had been the subject of adjudications in the Ecclesiastical Courts, while it left untouched other proceedings which were beyond doubt offences against the law. Moreover, it would have the effect of reducing the Bishop from being the father of his flock to the position of a mere constable, whoso duty would simply be to order the offending clergyman to "move on." There were different parties in the Church and different views of what was right and wrong in the way of worship; but the Church was large enough to hold these various parties, and there were clergymen enough to minister to thorn as they desired, at different churches in our towns, if not at different hours in the country. In face, then, of these existing facts, it would be wiser to attempt to accommodate the various susceptibilities that existed, than to endeavour by an Act of Parliament to crush out one of the great parties of which the historical Church of England was composed. That party could not be crushed out or loaded with oppressive measures without bringing down the whole of the Establishment, of which they were an essential portion, no did not fear to assert that if that Bill should pass, then the Liberation Society would have no cause to regret the absence of Mr. Miall from the present Parliament.
 MR. ALDERMAN W. M'ARTHUR , asked the First Lord of the Admiralty,
 1587
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the Question refers to many complicated transactions. I need only say at present, with reference to the Treaty of 1819 with the Sultan of Acheen, that we are of opinion that under the 1st Article of the Treaty of 1871 between Her Majesty and the King of the Netherlands, it would be morally impossible for us to interfere in that country under existing circumstances.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am not aware, Sir, of any of the circumstances to which the Question of the hon. Baronet refers. I have received no representation from the Irish Judges of the kind which he intimates, nor has the Lord Chancellor; and I have the best authority for saying that no representation of that character has been received from the Scotch Judges. Therefore, under those circumstances, the rest of the inquiry of the hon. Baronet—"whether Her Majesty's Government intends to defer to such authoritative dissent so far as not to extend the Judicature Act to Ireland and Scotland as regards Appeals"—naturally falls to the ground.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, a Lord Commissioner of the Great Seal does not cease to be a Common Law Judge because he acts in Equity; and, therefore, he is liable to perform his duties as a Common Law Judge, There is no salary whatever attaching to the office of Lord High Commissioner of the Great Seal, and therefore I do consider it proper that he should act as an Election Judge under these circumstances.
 MR. RITCHIE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Her Majesty's Government have arrived at any conclusion with reference to extending the benefit of the Bank Holidays to the employés in the Customs Department and to others who are at present unable to take advantage of them; and, if a conclusion favourable to such extension has been arrived at, what steps Her Majesty's Government propose to take for the purpose of carrying it into effect?
 MR. HUNT : The matter, Sir, to which the Question relates, is being very carefully considered at the Admiralty.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : In the ease, Sir, of wells or water supplies of a public character, it is in the power of the sanitary authority to prevent the use of polluted water, but in the case of private wells there is no such power. This, with many other points arising under the Sanitary Acts, has been recently under my consideration, with a view to some amendment of the Law, and I hope shortly to be able to make some proposals on the subject.
 MR. HOLT , in moving, that the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring
 1665 1666
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, the Government are awaiting further information before arriving at any decision with respect to Sir Andrew Clarke's proposals for the appointment of a British Resident in Perak, and pending their confirmation by this Government his arrangements are altogether provisional. As soon as the Correspondence is sufficiently complete it will be laid before Parliament. If there should be any deficiency in the Straits Settlements of officers speaking Malay or Chinese, the sources indicated by the hon. Member—officers of the Indian Army who have been stationed in the Straits Settlements and officers of the China Consular Service—can be resorted to. The present system, however, of nomination and competitive examination, by which cadets are appointed in this country, whose confirmation as permanent officers of the Colonial Government depends upon their passing a subsequent examination in a native language, has up to this time-proved sufficient for the purpose.
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, the preparation of the Return is a work of considerable difficulty, and particulars have yet to be received from several Departments. All possible dispatch will be used, but it is not at present possible to say how soon the Return can be presented.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, a Question on the subject of the grievances of the Post Office servants.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, it is true that vaccine lymph is supplied gratuitously to registered medical practitioners in Great Britain by the medical officer of the Local Government. Board. It was also supplied gratuitously in the same way to registered medical practitioners in Ireland until August, 1871; but the main source had supply had been the Dublin Cow Pock Institution, which received an annual grant of £400 for Ireland alone, and supplemented this fund by the sale of the lymph to persons applying for it and by getting subscriptions from unions and dispensary districts. Since January. 1864, when the Compulsory Vaccination Act came into operation, the medical officers of dispensaries, who are the public vaccinators throughout Ireland, have for the most part derived their supplies from other sources—that is to say, they have vaccinated, as far as practicable, from arm to arm, and have stored lymph for future use in Husband's capillary tubes, which are provided for them by the guardians. So that Ireland was not to any great extent dependent on London for a supply of vaccine lymph when the gratuitous supply was withdrawn by the Privy Council in 1871. It is true that an epidemic of small-pox prevailed to a considerable extent at that time, but although it increased subsequently, yet it decreased in 1873 to the extent of one-sixth of the cases of the previous year, and it is still decreasing. I will, however, undertake carefully to consider whether it is possible to allow Irish medical practitioners the same facilities for obtaining a gratuitous supply of vaccine lymph as are enjoyed in England.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, the ecclesiastical ruins on the Rock of Cashel are the only ancient remains
 1592
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What Ancient Churches, Pound Towers, and other remains have been constituted National Monuments under the twenty-fifth section of the Irish Church Act, and what funds have been appropriated by the Commissioners for their preservation?
 MR. POWER  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether there is any objection to extend to Ireland the Clauses of the Inland Revenue Act, 33 and 34 Vic, c. 32, allowing the germination of grain for feeding purposes for cattle?
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the rank and title of the future head of the Mission at Berne will be that of Minister Resident and not of Chargé d'Affaires. The Swiss Government have no diplomatic representative in this country. The French Government, on the appointment of Count Chaudordy, raised their representative at Berne to the rank of Ambassador. With regard to the other Powers referred to, Germany, Austria, Russia, and Portugal have each at Berne an Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary.
 1584
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, it was decided some months ago by the late Government to abolish the office of Consul at Cairo. Notice to that effect was given
 1585
 MR. HOLLAND  asked the First Commissioner of Works. Whether there is any probability of the Government Survey of the county of Merioneth being completed soon, and when?
 MR. MELLOR  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies. When the Return relating to the cost of the several Colonies of the British Empire, for the years 1869–70, 1870–71, 1871–2, and 1872–3, which was moved for on the 17th July 1873, will be presented?
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any steps are about being taken further to secure from the danger of fire the Abbey and Palace of Westminster, by the removal of houses in close proximity to those edifices?
 MR. A. H. BROWN  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether there is any power in the hands of any rural sanitary authority to close or prevent the inhabitants of such sanitary district from using the water from any wells or streams when they are found by the Medical Officer of Health or Inspector of Nuisances, to be polluted by sewage or other deleterious matter?
 MR. DALRYMPLE  asked the Tice President of the Council. Whether his attention has been called to the discouragement offered to Evening Schools throughout the country by the high standards required by the Code, and to the gradual diminution of the number of such Schools?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN : I beg to give Notice that on going into Committee of Supply on Thursday, I shall call the attention of the House to the right hon. Gentleman's answer, and move a Resolution.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the statement in the public prints that the Petition against the Return of Mr. O'Donnell, one of the Members for the
 1582
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If not inconvenient to the public interests, to lay upon the Table of the House the whole of the Correspondence relating to the late important arrangements made by Colonel Sir Andrew Clarke, Governor of the Straits of Malacca, by which the Government of the Straits becomes the controlling authority over the Chinese and Malay population at Perak; what measures the Colonial Office have taken to supply efficient assistants to the Governor of the Straits by selecting officers well acquainted with the Malay language, and probably procurable in India from amongst the officers of the Indian Army who have been stationed in the Straits settlements; and, whether, having regard to the large Chinese population in the Malay Peninsula, and yearly on the increase by emigrants from China, the Foreign Office could, on the application of the Colonial Office, supply some officers from the China Consular service acquainted with the Chinese language for employment under the Governor of the Straits?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he is aware that the unanimous opinion of the Irish Judges, both of Law and Equity, is against the abolition of the appellate jurisdiction of the House of Lords and the transfer of Irish Appeals to the new Appellate Court, and that the opinion of the Scotch Judges is the same as regards Scotland; whether Her Majesty's Government intends to defer to such authoritative dissent so far as not to extend the Judicature Act to Ireland and Scotland as regards Appeals; and, whether under these circumstances Her Majesty's Government will take into consideration the advisability of deferring the operation of or amending the Act in this respect as regards England?
 SIR HENRY WOLFF  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government have reduced the rank of the head of the Mission at Berne to that of a Chargé d'Affaires; whether the French Government have raised the representative of France at that capital to the rank of an Ambassador; what is the diplomatic rank of the representatives at Berne of other Powers guarantors of the neutrality of Switzerland; and, whether, in case the reduction has taken place in Switzerland, it is proposed to apply a similar reduction to Her Majesty's Missions in Belgium and Greece, the neutrality of which Countries is also guaranteed?
 MR. PEASE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether those Writers in the Customs who were appointed previously to the 19th August 1871, have had restored to them the rates of payment they enjoyed previously to the passing of the Order in Council of that date, and on which they entered the Service?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that those writers had not had restored to them the rate of payment which they enjoyed previously to the passing of the Order in Council referred to. That was one of the subjects to which the attention of the Commission which was now about to sit, and over which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Edinburgh
 1586
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, holidays in the Customs are regulated by Act of Parliament, which closes docks throughout the Kingdom on the days on which Custom Houses are ordered to be closed. It will be impossible to extend Bank holidays to all the  employés
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I understand that when this permission was given it was not extended to Ireland: partly because it was supposed there was not the same demand for the germination of grain or malt for feeding cattle in Ireland, in consequence of the abundance of green crops: and partly because, on the other hand, it was feared it would be difficult to prevent illicit distillation in Ireland, as the facilities for carrying it on are greater than in England. I will have the matter inquired into again, to see whether it is possible to extend the clauses of the Act to Ireland.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, much public interest has been excited with respect to the persons employed in the service of the Post Office, and I am not surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman, who has such an interest in the matter, should have put this Question. I can only say at present that the subject is one which is attracting the serious attention of the Government; that communications are now going on between the Postmaster General and the Treasury with respect to the rates of pay of the Post Office servants in various parts of the country; and that the representations on the subject are receiving very careful consideration from the Treasury In one or two
 1583
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Inland Revenue authorities, after being apprised that the Crystal Palace Directors were disqualified by special Act of Parliament from selling distilled spirits in the palace and grounds, have granted to them a licence for that purpose; and, if this be the case, whether he intends to take any steps for the vindication of the Law?
 VISCOUT SANDON : Sir, I am not prepared at present, without further inquiry and consideration, to give an opinion as to whether discouragement has been offered to evening schools by the New Code. Considering the great interest which my hon. Friend has always shown in these schools. I am not at all surprised that he should be startled by the fact that while the average attendance at evening schools in 1870 was 73,300, the average attendance in 1873 fell to 45,900; and I think he is very right in taking notice of these figures. Without giving any opinion on this important Question, I can assure him that the subject has not escaped my observation, and that it will receive the best attention of the Lord President and myself.
 MR. GILPIN  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What truth there is in the statement which has appeared in  The Angsburghe Allgemeine Zeitung
 MR. WILSON  supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. T. E. Smith), and said that at null, Newcastle, Liverpool, and London there was general dissatisfaction with the constitution and action of the Board. It was felt that, to some extent, the commercial supremacy was at stake, because of the vexatious interference of the Board of Trade. Indeed, some ships had already been put under foreign flags. One point of objection was the action of the Board of Trade surveyors at the different ports. Often they were men not equal in ability or position to the representatives of the great shipping firms with whom they came in contact, and yet over whom they had at present arbitrary and uncontrolled powers. That was a matter which, it was felt, required immediate attention and alteration. It was not right that when ships were built according to the rules and requirements of the Board of Trade, and when these ships were ready for sea, a newly-appointed Inspector should come and find fault with what his predecessors had done and refuse to give the vessel a certificate. Another ground of complaint was the constitution of the Courts of Inquiry. That was a great grievance, and another argument in favour of the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry. In every maritime district there were
 1689
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH , in reply, said, that as it was the wish of the House to proceed to a division, he would not stand in the way for more than a few moments. He would merely remind them that the Fifth Standard had been fixed by the Education Department, that it had been adopted by most of the school boards in the country, including that of London, of which the noble Lord (Viscount Sandon) had been an active member, and that even in the Agricultural Children Act the Fourth Standard was the minimum required. It had boon reserved for the present Government to disregard all these precedents, and to say that children must not be sent to school after passing the Third Standard. It remained to be seen whether that course would be approved by Parliament.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  rose to call the attention of the House to the Minute of the Committee of Council on Education, substituting the Third Standard of the Education Code for the Fifth Standard as the standard to be reached by the children of out-door paupers, and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is undesirable that the Guardians of the Poor should be relieved from the duty of providing for the education of the children of parents in the receipt of out-door relief under section 3 of 'The Elementary Education Act Amendment Act (1873)' as soon as those children reach so low a standard as the Third Standard of the Education Code." 1708 1709 1710
 MR. CARTWRIGHT , in seconding the Resolution, said, that no question more important in the interests of education could be submitted to the House. The Resolution so ably moved by his hon. Friend dealt with a Minute which he ventured to designate as most untoward, and which, if it had any meaning at all, was intended to paralyze that movement in the direction of improved
 1711
 LORD ESLINGTON , as a Member of the Royal Commission, thought it necessary to reply to some observations of his hon. Friend who, he was not surprised, had brought the subject before the House. His hon. Friend expressed regret that the Commission had not reported on the question of seaworthiness; but the fact was they were not prepared to report. The question of seaworthiness involved many most important, difficult, and delicate matters—the construction of ships, measurement, insurance, inquiries by the Board of Trade into accidents and losses, the conduct and character of seamen, and it was perfectly impossible, until all these had been duly considered and weighed, that they could report upon that question.
 LORD ESLINGTON  hoped the House would think that the Commission were the best Judges of the proper course to pursue on the question of seaworthiness, and he would promise that when the proper time arrived for reporting, it would be found they had devoted their best attention to the subjects referred to them. His hon. Friend had said he was not quite sure whether the operation of the Act of 1873 came within the scope of the Order of Reference. He could relieve his hon. Friend's mind on that point by informing him that the Commissioners had gone at great length into the operation of the Act. Again, his hon. Friend had said that the Board of Trade were unfit to cope with the work which they had undertaken. Now, the Board of Trade had undertaken the work that had been forced upon them by the House of Commons, and they were perfectly aware of the responsibility which had been imposed upon them. In his opinion, the Act of 1873 was introduced by the late Government rather hastily, in obedience to the call of public opinion at the time, which was not very well-informed as to the actual extent of the evil intended to be remedied by the measure, and it did not receive at the hands of Parliament the careful consideration it deserved. Never-
 1684 sub judice Parga surveillance 1685
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, the only reason why the Natural History Collections belonging to the East India Company were not at present available to the public was that there was no place in the India Office in which to exhibit them. The matter had been under the consideration of the Secretary of State; but while, on the one hand, his noble Friend was very anxious that the public should have the advantage of those collections, he was,
 1674
 MR. PELL  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Her Majesty's Government will take steps to empower the Public Works Loan Commissioners to make advances to the authorities in counties and boroughs in England and Wales on the terms and conditions contained in the forty-fourth section of the Public Health Act, 1872, first, for the conversion of outstanding Loans raised for the construction of Lunatic Asylums, Gaols, and Police Buildings; and, secondly, for the expenses which such authorities may hereafter have to incur on these objects?
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : The Bill is not, as described, for substituting voluntary for compulsory testing of cables and anchors, but for abolishing legislative penalties on the sale of untested chains, which so far from proving compulsory, have proved abortive and yet indirectly mischievous. No signs of opposition, but only of general concurrence, have yet appeared; but in deference to the hon. Member the second reading shall be postponed to Thursday week.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY  said, he was glad the discussion had taken place, because it would have the effect of removing many misapprehensions which had prevailed as to the action of the Board of Trade. The hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. T. E. Smith) asked for a Select Committee to inquire whether any alterations could be made in the constitution and procedure of the Marine Department, owing to the increase of work which had recently been cast upon
 1693 1694 1695 personnel 1696 "Our president, T. E. Smith, Esq., M.P., has given notice that on the 21st of April, he will Call the attention of the House of Commons to the increasing powers and responsibilities and the unsatisfactory constitution of the Marine Department of the Board of Trade, and move a Resolution. It is desirable that Mr. Smith should he supplied with as many facts bearing upon the subject as possible; and if you have Suffered from vexatious interference on the part of the Board of Trade officials I shall feel obliged by your sending me full details of the same, including names, places, dates, &c., in order that I may arrange and forward them to Mr. Smith at least a week previous to the day when the hon. Member proposes to address the House on this question." 1697 "That in many instances the surveyors appointed to carry this provision into execution are ignoring the spirit of the Act, and so interpreting and working it as to produce grievous loss, and it may be ruin, on many honest, thrifty, and experienced shipowners, whose vessels are well found and quite efficient, having regard to the nature of the service for which they are intended. Your memorialists, judging from the cases submitted to them of incapacity and undue interference on the part of the Board of Trade Surveyors, are convinced that persons have been appointed who do not possess the requisite practical knowledge of shipping matters or the peculiar qualifications that are so essential for the proper and satisfactory performance of the highly important duties pertaining to the office of surveyor." "These paragraphs contain a distinct charge against the Board of Trade officials, and the Board feel it their duty to call upon the memorialists to give a full, clear, and distinct statement of the cases to which they refer. When this is done the Board of Trade will, if it appears to be necessary, institute a strict and searching examination into those cases." It was deemed undesirable, after weighing the tenour of your reply, to enter specifically into past cases of undue interference, inasmuch as many of the instances submitted to us have, we understand, been brought directly under your notice by the parties most intimately concerned." 1698
 MR. NORWOOD  said, he thought that if the Inquiry for which his hon. Friend (Mr. T. E. Smith) asked took place either this year or next, it should not be confined to the Marine Department of the Board of Trade, but extend to its entire constitution. He (Mr. Norwood) trusted that when the Report
 1699
 MR. RITCHIE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether there are not some writers in the Customs Department appointed prior to June 1870 whose annual increments of salary have been stopped for nearly three years; whether Writers of the same class at the Board of Trade and at the Admiralty have not within the last year had their position
 1675
 MR. CLARE READ  understood the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Forster) to say that pauper children should be better educated than other children—["No!"]—but he said they must take things as they found them. Owing to the way in which the Poor Law had been administered in this country, the children of out-door paupers were, as a rule, worse educated than any other children. That was due, in the first place, to the rough-and-ready way in which Denison's Act had been put in force in the rural districts. Guardians had asked whether a child was at school or at work, and on finding that a child was at work they did not insist on his-going to school. The ratepayers employed pauper children to ease the rates, and kindhearted people found
 1730 s s d d d 1731
 MR. BENTINCK  said, it was impossible to exaggerate the importance of the question which had been brought before the House by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. T. E. Smith.) He did not rise for the purpose of attacking his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, who had been too short a time in office to master all the subjects with which he would be called upon to deal. All, however, were agreed as to the great talents evinced by Mr. Gray. He most cordially agreed with the hon. Member who brought forward this Motion that it was impossible for the Board of Trade, in its present position, to fulfil its duties, He also agreed with him that it was very much to be lamented that the President of the Board of Trade was not a Cabinet Minister, for no one who was not could bring to bear on the Cabinet that weight of authority which would be required to induce them to take up the important subjects which demanded attention. His right hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir John Hay) had often brought before the House the question of the rule of the road at sea, but always without success; and the argument urged against him was that any attempt to disturb it would only lead to confusion and consequent loss of vessels and lives. But how did the case stand now? His
 1688
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, his noble Friend (Viscount Sandon) would explain presently the reasons which had induced him to issue this Minute. He thought his noble Friend, considering the exertions which he had made in the cause of education, might have obtained credit from the last two speakers for a desire to stand by the principles which he had always maintained, and for having no wish to break down the principles on which the national system of education was based. He (Mr. Sclater-Booth) wished to point out that the obligation of providing education for the children of parents in the receipt of out-door relief fell, not upon school boards, but upon the guardians of the poor. He might add that the substitution of the Third for the Fifth Standard had been very much pressed on his noble Friend by himself. Boards of Guardians in different parts of the country had represented that they had experienced the greatest difficulty in bringing the children in question under the operation of the system. They found, on the one hand, that parents were discharging themselves from relief in order that they might still enjoy the earnings of their children [ Opposition cheers 1713
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  observed, that notwithstanding the statements of the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. T. E. Smith), all who had had experience of the Department would agree that the Board of Trade had amongst its staff men of almost unequalled ability, and that the business was conducted in a most business-like manner, and would compare favourably with any other Department of the public service. In Mr. Farrer, the Permanent Under Secretary, the Board of Trade had an officer of great experience and undoubted ability. He had been at the Board of Trade for many years, and had the principal share in drafting the great Merchant Shipping Act of 1853. Mr. Farrer had also been the mainspring of all the legislation for the regulation of the Mercantile Marine since that time, and his evidence before the Commission on Unseaworthy Ships and the Pilotage Commission showed the great range of his knowledge. Mr. Gray, the Secretary for the Marine Department of the Board of Trade, in addition to great experience, possessed a knowledge of all matters concerning the sea which might be described as unequalled; and with reference to the lower appointments, the Board of Trade had 12 assessors, two of whom had been admirals, five captains, and five merchant captains; 30 or 40 engineering surveyors, 16 wooden shipwrights, 16 merchant shipwrights, and 20 officers who were connected with the Emi-
 1691 1692
 MR. WHALLEY  was also of opinion that the scope of the Inquiry, whenever it took place, should be extended to the administration of the various branches of duty committed to the Board of Trade. The hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Plimsoll) was absent in consequence of indisposition; but, if he had been present, he would have borne testimony to the remarkable efficiency with which Mr. Gray discharged his duties at the Board of Trade.
 MR. BUTT , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to make provision for more effectually securing the Ulster Tenant-Right, and to amend "The Landlord and Tenant (Ireland) Act, 1870," said, that he intended to revert to the old practice of making a statement as to the nature of his Bill on asking leave to introduce it. In introducing this measure, he did not intend to undervalue the Irish Land Act. That Act had established great principles, and had done much good; but, at the same time, no one would pretend to say that it could be accepted as a final and complete settlement of the Irish land question, and he believed that a very large majority of the Irish Members were more or less under engagements to their constituents
 1700 1701 1702 1703 1704 1705
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  assented, on the part of the Government, to the introduction of the Bill; but he wished it to be understood that this did not imply agreement with the views of the hon. and learned Member who introduced it, or the reasoning with which he supported it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , in reply, said, he could not speak as to the unanimity of the Irish Judges; but he was aware that a very large number of them were opposed to the transfer of the Appellate Jurisdiction from the House of Lords. He was also aware that the Irish Judges
 1677
 MR. LAIRD  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he will postpone the second reading of the Chain Cables and Anchors Bill in order that public bodies and others interested in the question may have an opportunity of considering the effect of the alteration proposed by the Bill—namely, voluntary instead of compulsory testing of chain cables and anchors?
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, he could not help thinking that some of the remakes used in this debate were sensational rather than distinguished by practical utility. The Act of last Session made that compulsory, which was before optional under Denison's Act, and provided that a certain amount of education should be given. He would remind the House that this question did not relate to children in work-house schools, but to an entirely different class—namely, the children of out-door paupers. To children brought up in workhouse schools the State might be said to stand  in loco parentis; "It should be a condition of the continuance of relief that elementary education in reading, writing, and arithmetic should he provided for each child." 1719
 MR. SAMUDA  said, that before the Act of 1873 was passed, there was no doubt that the knowledge acquired by Parliament was such, that it became imperatively necessary to strengthen the hands of the Board of Trade or some Department in order to provide the public a greater amount of security to life and property, owing to the disregard of the sea-worthy qualities of vessels. To the written law of the Board of Trade no objection was offered, but there were the unwritten laws used by Inspectors, who, in consequence of being threatened with personal responsibility if they made a mistake, sometimes imposed very unfair and vexatious restrictions upon shipowners. Shipowners received very various treatment at the hands of different surveyors; thus, in some cases, the surveyor of an emigrant ship would be satisfied with inspecting certain samples of the articles of food to be used in the course of the voyage, while another would require every package on board to be opened, and it was impossible to carry on business under these circumstances. It was very proper that the sending of an unseaworthy ship to sea should be regarded as a misdemeanour; and he should like to see any shipowner prevented from recouping himself in full by means of insurance in such a case if the vessel was lost. The great thing wanted was that the Board of Trade should separate inspection from direction, and confine their Inspectors to the former, making them abandon the latter altogether; because direction in the hands of the Inspectors was mischievous, interfering with private action, and over-riding men of great experience who had been familiar with the special business they were carrying out all their lives. He took the opportunity of pointing out to Lord Carlingford, before he brought in the Merchant Shipping Bill, that one effect of it would be to increase enormously the price of chain cables without any advantage whatever to the public, and this had really been the case, and it was now even proposed to go so far in the opposite direction as to remove all penalties from using untested chains—a course equally objectionable, and to his mind proving the absolute necessity of more consultation and cooperation between the Board of Trade and the mercantile community, before rashly entering upon legislation which
 1687
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said—I believe that the mistake which the President and Vice President of the Council have committed is largely due to the disjointed manner in which the education of this country is carried on. Here we have the case of two distinct Departments dealing with the education of pauper children—the Committee of Council and the Local Government Board. The latter, having had long experience of the education of paupers, could have given abundant testimony as to the effects of low and high education in the training of paupers; but, until the President of the Local Government
 1714 "Many persons object, as to the book knowledge communicated in the schools, that we are over-educating the children: but my reply has always been that I never wished them to receive more education than is necessary to ensure that they shall never become paupers again. If we educate them so that they fall below this mark, we probably entail upon the parish the expense of £200 or £300 in each ease when a failure lakes place. Now, as the difference of the cost between a good and bad education is not more than about 30 s 1715 1716 1717 in loco parentis in loco parentis
 MR. BOURKE : No such instructions have been issued by the Foreign Office; but I think it fair to state that there is a question now before the Law Officers of the Crown upon the subject of the
 1676
 MR. LOWE : I will not stop to argue with the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, for though I do not doubt he is a very good friend to education, I am perfectly unable to conceive how, upon the grounds which he has placed before us, he ever was able to reconcile his mind to giving the poor any education at all. I will pass to the noble Lord (Viscount Sandon) who has, I think, fallen into a fault that is very unusual. The noble Lord is new in his office, and it is the tendency of most of us when we first get into an office of importance and responsibility, to over-estimate its value and importance. What I complain of the noble Lord is, that he has under-estimated the duties of his office, and that which he is called upon to do. I do not confine myself to assertion; I say what I do in no spirit of disrespect to the noble Lord. I apprehend there are two duties cast upon the noble Lord in the most important office which he fills. The one is that, as this system of education is partly carried on by Acts of Parliament, and partly by Minutes of Council, the noble Lord ought so to frame the Minutes of Council as to carry out the spirit of the Acts of Parliament. The second duty incumbent on the noble Lord is that, as through his hands passes an enormous sum of public money, which is given by Parliament with the view of promoting the real and thorough education of the people, it is his duty by every means in his power to seek to uphold the standard of that education, and to make the money that he disburses the means, not only of still maintaining, but of elevating the standard of education all over the country. I am sorry to say that I do not think, judging by his speech to-night, that he is sufficiently aware of the magnitude of those duties, nor do I think that in this matter he has adequately discharged them. The question is, what did Parliament mean when it made, so far as it has made, education compulsory? Did it mean that that was to be a colourable proceeding—that the formula was to be gone through under the pretence of doing something, and then we were to stop? Was not Parliament aware, when it passed the Elementary Education Act, of all that has been urged to-night about the hardship of taking children away from their parents when they were earning money, and compelling them to learn? Parliament looked
 1733
 MR. S. B. BRISTOWE  said, he was anxious to recognize the services of the Vice President of the Council in the cause of education and the great interest he took in the question, and it was on this very ground that he was wholly unable to comprehend the aim and object of the Minute of 18th March in this year. He thought the House and the country were entitled to have solid and substantial reasons given for so summarily repealing the Minute of December last, which decided that Standard V. should be the limit of exemption under the Elementary Education Act Amendment Act, 1873, and deciding that Standard III. should be sufficient. It was important to consider what the undoubted effect of this new Minute would be. In his opinion, it must tend to lower the standard of education throughout the country, because it would be alleged and believed that, in the opinion of the Government and of those having the direction of educational matters, the Third Standard was a sufficient qualification for all children. It had occurred to him that the general opinion of the country upon this point might be tested in some degree by looking through the bye-laws of school boards sanctioned by the Committee; of Council since the passing of the Elementary Education Act, and with that view he had carefully gone through the appendices to the Reports of the Committee of Council for Education for the years 1872 and 1873, and he found that out of 194 school boards whose bye-laws had been allowed, 125 had adopted Standard V. as the limit of compulsory attendance, 11 had adopted Standard VI., 47 had adopted Standard IV., and only four had adopted Standard III. Now, what did these figures show?—clearly, that public opinion in these districts where school boards had adopted bye-laws with compulsory powers, was practically unanimous in adopting a higher standard than the Third, and that being so, the great inconvenience would follow that we should have school boards where the standard of exemption was the Fourth, Fifth, or Sixth, whilst the Third was the normal Standard for the rest of the unions in which the school board district was situated. It was quite impossible to suppose that this state of things could go on; and as, in his opinion, Standard V. was already low enough, he considered the new Minute
 1721
 MR. T. E. SMITH  explained that he made no complaint about the Commission not reporting on the subject; he merely stated a simple matter of fact.
 MR. T. E. SMITH  rose to call attention to the increasing powers and responsibilities and unsatisfactory constitution of the Marine Department of the Board of Trade; and to move that a Select Committee be appointed—
 "To inquire whether any alterations are needed in its constitution or procedure in consequence of the important changes which have taken place in the Mercantile Marine during the last few years." 1678 1679 1680 1681 Parga Eastern Monarch 1682
 MR. T. E. SMITH  agreed that it might be premature to enter into the proposed Inquiry while a Royal Commission was sitting. He should, therefore, not put the House to the trouble of dividing.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, it was with regret that he had found himself in opposition to his successor in the Education Department. Considering the difficulty of the work which his noble Friend had to do, he thought his noble Friend deserved special sympathy. He fully believed that both the President and the Vice President of the Council were anxious to carry into effect the Education Act. If his noble Friend had had three or four months' experience of the work he had to do, he did not believe that this Minute would have been passed. He was bound to state to the House the ground on which he thought it right, on behalf of the Education Department, to issue the Minute which his noble Friend had deemed it his duty to cancel. His noble Friend the late President of the Council (Lord Aberdare) was not in London at the time that he (Mr. W. E. Forster) thought it
 1726 1727 1728 1729
 MR. RATHBONE  concurred in what had been said as to the existence of general dissatisfaction at the present state of things, but maintained that the blame rested mainly, not with the Board of Trade, but with the public and the House of Commons, who had devolved upon the Board of Trade functions which it was impossible for it to perform efficiently. From a statement of those functions it must be obvious how far we were deviating from those principles which had made the country's Mercantile Marine what it was. Recent legislation had diminished the responsibility of shipowners, and placed the responsibility on a Government Department which was unequal to the duties devolved upon it. The course which ought to have been pursued was exactly the reverse. They should have concentrated responsibility on the shipowners, leaving them free to carry on their trade, but punishing them whenever they did wrong. The want of a public prosecutor, or some one who would undertake his duties, had caused most of the recent heart-burnings and outcries, and the want was one easily remedied.
 MR. GOURLEY  complained that shipowners were not only placed under exceptional laws, like the Merchant Shipping Act of 1873, but they were also responsible to the Common Law of the land and liable to the interference of well-meaning but mistaken philanthropists. They were also subject to illegal interference on the part of the Board of Trade, and in substantiation of that assertion he would refer to the case of the  Western Ocean Mary Anne 1690
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for compensation to workpeople of joint-stock companies and of private employers of labour in cases of accident arising from causes beyond the control of the person employed, and occurring during the hours of lawful employment, said, his object was to facilitate the means of effecting compensation in cases of persons who met with injuries in the service of their employers, in cases wherein the injury was not caused by rash acts of their own. He might say that there was much—very much to be modified and mitigated in cases of accidents. It was only a few days ago, that the case of a boy, who was injured by an accident, was brought under his notice. The injury was serious; but the boy failed to get any compensation, and was living upon charity. It had been said that when persons took employment, they took it with all the risk that attached to it. That might be true in some cases; but the tendency of legislation now was rather against the capitalist. He did not propose to do anything which would place a distinct burden upon the shoulders of the capitalists or the employer, but rather to define a risk which was at present indefinite, and by so doing rather to diminish litigation than to encourage it. He proposed, therefore, to do away with those impediments which prevented a person injured during his employment suing his employer, but to limit the amount of compensation recoverable to a sum not exceeding a year's wages or salary receivable by the person who had been killed or injured. To simplify the mode of recovery he proposed to extend the jurisdiction of the County Courts in order to enable them to deal easily and cheaply with the cases as they arose, and believing that in most cases it would not be a matter of litigation, but of friendly arrangement, he further proposed to give power to the employer to make a settlement with the relatives of the man who had been killed, or with the injured man himself. He proposed to insert a clause fixing a limit of time, after which no claim should be made, so that there should be no contingent liability hanging over an em-
 1707
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  asked Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Mr. Justice Morris having stated to the Member for the County of Wexford that the Irish Judges of Law and Equity had considered the question of Irish appeals, and that their opinion was unanimous against the abolition of the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords, Whether he is aware of that opinion, and is prepared to give duo weight to it; and, whether Her Majesty's Government is aware that the Right Hon. J. Napier, First Lord Commissioner of the Great Seal holds the same opinion?
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, When the Natural History Collections belonging to the former East India Company will be rendered available to the Naturalist who may wish to consult them, or be arranged for exhibition to the public?
 MR. PEASE  was of opinion that the introduction of this Minute was due to the exigencies of a Department of the State, as shown by the speech of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Sclater-Booth), rather than to the dictates of the judgment of the Vice President of the Council, whose contributions to national education had always shown that the noble Lord had at heart the best interests of the persons immediately affected
 1718
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had hardly expected, after the speech of his noble Friend
 1734 à priori 1735
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : There are some writers in several Departments of the public service, including the Customs, who were appointed prior to 1870 and whose annual increments have been stopped by the Order in Council of August 19, 1871. I understand there has been no general alteration made with regard to the writers employed at the Board of Trade and the Admiralty, but that on the re-organization of the Board of Trade some opportunities occurred for providing upon the establishment for many gentlemen employed as writers, and at the Admirality there has been a new class recently added to the establishment into which writers have been taken. There is no intention to withhold from the writers in the Customs the same advantages given to writers, as such, in the public service; but the question is one which, as I said yesterday, has been referred to the Commission now just beginning to sit. Their attention has been directed to it and I hope satisfactory arrangements will be made.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The tendency of late years has been to throw a great deal more business than formerly upon the Public Works Loan Commissioners, and a considerable number of Acts have been passed requiring them to make advances on exceptionally favourable terms for works, no doubt, of considerable public utility. But I do not think it would be advisable to add to the duties that have been cast upon them without very carefully revising and reviewing the position in which that Commission stands, and its relation to the funds which are provided for the purpose of supplying those loans. I cannot, therefore, give any promise on the subject at present; but the matter shall be carefully considered in connection with other questions relating to the position of the fund.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  thanked hon. Members opposite for the friendly way in which they had alluded to his appointment. He had not expected that the debate on this subject would have taken so wide and important a scope; and he hoped the House would forgive him if he attempted to bring them down for a moment from the high flights of philanthropic aspiration in which some hon. Members had indulged, to the lower regions which, being in office, he had to deal with on the present occasion. The question was simply, in the first place, what was the character of the population that were affected by the subject, and, in the second place, how much of the population would the Minute embrace? Of the 22,000,000 which composed that population nearly 10,000,000 were already under the action of bye-laws, and therefore more or less under the influence of compulsion, and were not touched by the Minute. The population affected by by the Minute amounted to between 12,000,000 and 13,000,000. The last Returns brought the number of the children of out-door paupers up to about 140,000, so that they might suppose roughly that the Minute affected a population of between 70,000 and 80,000 children. They were orphans, children of old or permanently disabled parents, unmarried women, of prisoners, soldiers, and sailors, and persons out of work or suffering from long illness, a large proportion of them being the children of wives deserted by their husbands, or of widows. Returns showed that though of very tender age they were to a very large extent in service or work of some kind, earning from 2 s d s s s d 1722 1723 "fixes the third Standard for the years 1874 and 1875 only. The Board learns from the Educational Department that they will fix a higher standard of education for the subsequent years, and, in order to enable the Department to determine what standard shall be so fixed they have requested this Board to furnish them at the end of the current year with information as to the number of children who may he exempted from attendance at school as having reached the third Standard. The Board, therefore, must leanest the Guardians to keep such a record of these eases as will enable them hereafter to supply the information required." 1724 Dissent 1725
 MR. MUNDELLA : Mr. Speaker, although this is the third Session of Parliament in which the Factory Acts Amendment Bill has been before the House, yet, owing to the fact that in the first Session it was brought in late, and in the second Session that the result of the inquiry instituted by the Government had not been reported, and it was again too late for that Session, this is in reality the first opportunity which has been presented to us for a full discussion of the question on its merits. Seeing then, that I am appealing to a new House of Commons, and that a considerable proportion of the Members of that House have not been familiar with the discussions that have heretofore taken place upon this Bill; seeing also that the subject has been the occasion of considerable discussion in the country sine the last Session of Parliament, and that it has been made a test question in many constituencies, especially in the manufacturing districts, I feel that I must ask the forbearance of the House whilst I submit, as succinctly as I possibly can, the reasons for introducing this measure and the grounds upon which I claim the assent of the House to its further progress. In doing this, I must ask the House to consider the measure on its own real merits. I must also ask hon. Members not to allow it to be prejudiced by any defects or faults in my advocacy. I am quite conscious of my inability to deal with the question in an adequate manner—in the manner which a question of such vast importance deserves; and I am quite sure that it is impossible, during the time that I shall venture to trespass on the attention of the House to state one half the arguments that might be adduced in favour of the measure. This question, Sir, has encountered considerable opposition. I know that I have powerful and influential opponents. I know that those who have taken up the weapons against this measure are gentlemen of great wealth, with much leisure, and great aptitude for public business. Still, Sir, I think I have reason for congratulation in the fact that up to this time, notwith-
 1741 1742 "I look on the Factory Bill, while admitting the propriety of regulating the labour of children as a quack medicine. I say with the least scruple that to tell a man he shall have 10 hours' work and 12 hours' wages is the same as telling him that by swallowing a certain pill he may get rid of all disease even if it be of 30 years' continuance. Therefore, while I have declared myself friendly to a measure for the regulation of the labour of children, I will not agree to rash measures which would drive the whole trade of this country to other countries, lower your wages, and aggravate every distress that you now endure." "My noble Friend near me seemed to think that the time was ill chosen. I must say that, I am of a different opinion. We carried up on Monday to the House of Lords a Bill which, if
 1743 Hansard 1744 The Reign of Law, "During the present century two great discoveries have been made in the science of Government: the one is the immense advantage of abolishing restrictions upon trade; the other is the absolute necessity of imposing restrictions upon labour." "If, during the last fifty years, it has been given to this country to make any progress in political science, that progress has been in nothing happier than in factory legislation. The names of those who strove for it and through whoso faith and perseverance it was ultimately carried are, and ever will be, in the history of polities, immortal names. No Government and no Minister has ever done a greater—perhaps all things considered, none has ever done so great a service." "That legislation upon interests so vast and
 1745
 SIR THOMAS BAZLEY : My hon. Friend has not accurately quoted the Amendment of which I have given Notice. What it says is—
 "That legislation upon interests so vast and important as are involved in the question of diminishing the hours of labour in Factories, and of further restricting the capital of the employers, ought to originate with Government rather than with a private Member, nor without the previous inquiry of a Committee or Commission to report upon the merits of a question of such magnitude, to guide the House and the Government in determining whether any and what amendments are needed."
 MR. MUNDELLA : I had not seen the Notice Paper of to-day. I read from the Paper which was supplied to us yesterday morning; I may, therefore, be excused from reading his own words. Well, then, what are the names of the men who have been illustrious in promoting factory legislation? The first Act of the kind was passed in the year 1802, at the instance of the first Sir Robert Peel, and was called—most appropriately, I think—the "Morals and Health Act." Prior to the passing of that Act, the apprentices were brought to the workshops and worked in relays, and it was said of them that their beds were never cold. The evils which then existed were such as, I am thankful to say, do not now exist, and cannot now exist; for I admit that the Acts which are in operation have done much to allay a great deal of misery and disease, and to improve the health and  physique 1746 1747 Hansard, 1748 1749 "The English spinner can hold his own with any country in Europe, in any neutral market in the world to which he had access; and then-was nothing whatever to fear even as regarded the attempt which was now being made—and which he sincerely hoped would succeed—by the cotton operatives, to shorten their hours of labour from 60 to 58 hours per week. He was sure the movement would go on, and that, instead of being a disadvantage to the capitalists, it would be an advantage to both masters and men. The hours of work had boon too long for the operative to work with the vigour and attention which the complicated machinery of the present day demanded. At present, we require in our cotton lactones more brains and less of brute labour than we ever required." 1750 entrée 1751 1752 1753 1754 1755 1756 "The composition of the size, and the pro portion of its ingredients, vary in different factories and with different steers, and the minuter processes, upon which depends the ability to get the greatest amount of size upon the warps, are frequently trade secrets with particular sizers. In general terms, however, the practice of sizing at Todmorden, for the kinds of cloth that are made there, consists in putting on to the warps from 50 to 90 per cent of 'size,' one-third of which consists of China clay." 1757 "We were told by a deputation of working men at Belfast, that their children frequently fainted from the heat of the spinning room; and this statement was confirmed by an independent and credible witness, and is, we believe, true. Another effect of the heat can easily be seen on the skin of the arms of the young children employed as doffers. A very large proportion of them have their arms covered with an eruption (technically known as lichen) analogous to the 'prickly heat so common in the tropics.' There prevails also in the flax spinning a peculiar form of fever, which almost always attacks those who for the first time commence working in flax mills, and which is called 'mill fever' by the workpeople themselves." "The flax manufacturing operatives suffer far more from phthisis. &c. than the other two classes"—artizan and labouring, and gentry and mercantile—"nearly three-fifths of those that die annually being taken off by diseases of the respiratory organs, while in the other two classes the average amounts to about two-fifths; and in carrying our investigation into the fatality of the different branches of the manufacture, we see that the death-rate among those employed in the preparing-rooms is exceedingly high—bring 31 per 1,000. "1. That no half-timers be allowed to work before they are 10 years of age. 2. That no half-timers, and no child under 15 years be employed in the unhealthy processes. 3. A thorough system of ventilation should be carried out. 4. The wearing of the 'Baker Respirator' made compulsory." 1758 "To lessen as much as possible the deaths among children, no mother should be allowed to work within two months from the birth of a child." "In some of those mills I have seen the thermometer at nearly 90 degrees, the rooms filled with steam, and the floors flooded with water thrown from the spindles, while the clothes of the workpeople, principally women, were completely saturated, caused by the condensed steam." "To-day I received a copy of a Bill to amend the Factory Acts; and so far from disapproving of it, I consider that, with the alteration of
 1759 "Factory schools," they say, "have been less efficient than is generally supposed. The following statistics of a sewing school, supported by the Provident Society in Manchester during the late cotton crisis, will create little surprise. The number of young women from 16 to 23 years of age that passed through the sowing school was 963. Only 199 could read and write. There can be no doubt the great proportion of those young women had been scholars in factory schools." 1760 "We employ 154 children and young persons, and we classify them as follows:—95 half-timers; 55 full-timers; 30 cannot write; 18 write wretchedly: 6 only moderately; 45 cannot do the simplest sum in arithmetic; 109 can do the first and second rules; 14 cannot read a line: 100 can read but very poorly; and 40 only can read well. The religious knowledge of those who attend Sunday school is moderate; but their general knowledge is very poor indeed. It is, in fact, as a general rule, gross ignorance; and I find it generally admitted that the half-time education is most defective." "The certifying surgeons in this district say that of 2,000 children who passed as half-timers, not 400 could read decently." 1761 "The reason assigned by the Chairman for so few being found at school is as follows:—That many such children are passed by the certifying surgeon because they have the appearance of being 13 years of age. The chairman is a mill-owner. I expressed doubt of the correctness of his opinion, but he assured me they were the facts of many such cases." "They know that children are passed between 11 and 13 as  over appearance 1762 "Throughout the whole of Preston, which has an average attendance of more than 11,000, I do not think that 100 children have been presented this year in the Sixth Standard." 1763 1764 "For many years past they had never been assembled at the annual meeting of that chamber, without an attempt being made to frighten them with the bugbear of foreign competition in the cotton trade. He read in  The Times 1765 "In Russia," says Mr. Redgrave, "the factories work night and day—150 hours a-week—there being two sets of workers, each working 75 hours per week. Taking the year round, they do not produce more than an English mill working 60 hours a-week." 1766 dramatis personæ "What was manufactured in India made little difference in the calculation. Of late years labour had been found to be worth more in agriculture than hand-loom work. The few mills that existed in Bombay were of doubtful tenure, and not very profitable, nor were they so largo as to affect the magnitude of the trade in this country." 1767 physique "The factory operatives here live wretchedly; their chief food consists of potatoes and dry bread. They inhabit small huts, many of them
 1768 "In these three places, and in the smaller factories abounding in this part of Flanders, the proportion of children employed is very large, and has a marked effect, both physical and moral, on the people." resumé "The state of the labour question in Belgium shows that it has been exhaustively discussed by all competent authorities throughout the country, and that no solution of the difficulty has yet been found. It can be stated that the opinions of the Chambers of Commerce, always excepting those of Liege and Verviers—which, undoubtedly, represented the most prosperous and intelligent industrial districts in Belgium—of all the learned and philanthropical societies of the public generally, and of the occupiers of large factories, are in favour of a law regulating the labour of women and children in factories and minis. All equally deplore the increasing moral and physical degeneracy of the working classes, which they attribute to the premature employment of children, and to the consequent absence of instruction. At the last census, in 1866, out of a total population of 4,839,000, more than one half. 2,548,742 were returned as being unable either to read or write." 1769 1770
 SIR THOMAS BAZLEY , in moving as an Amendment, to leave out from the word "That" to the end of the Question, in order to add the words—
 "legislation upon interests so vast and important as are involved in the question of diminishing the hours of labour in Factories and of further restricting the capital of the employers, ought to originate with the Government rather than with a private Member, and with the previous inquiry of a Committee or Commission to report upon the merits of a question of such magnitude, to guide the House and the Government in determining whether any and what Amendments are needed," 1771 1772 1773
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, that he addressed the House with the diffidence natural to a Member who claimed its attention for the first time; but his apology for rising was, that he might claim to know something of the subject before the House. He had been long-connected with the mercantile and manu-
 1774 1775 1776 d d
 MR. CALLENDER  said, that his hon. Colleague (Sir Thomas Bazley) had spoken of the Bill as exceptional legislation; but he (Mr. Callender) might remind the House that protection had been extended to female and infant labour in factories for the last 70 years. The measure might be supported on two grounds—the necessity for further legislation on the ground of public health, or failing the proof of such necessity, on the advisability of effecting a settlement of the question. The former and most important point had been fully argued by the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Mundella); the Medical Commissioners pronounced in favour of a 54-hours Bill; and the long experience of Mr. Baker pointed in the same direction. But it was also expedient to settle the question, as for many years the tendency to shorten the hours of labour had become universal, and by means of trade organizations, nine hours had become recognized as a fair limit of a day's work in those great industries where adult male labour was alone employed. How could textile fabrics be exempted from that rule, and why should women, because they had not organized themselves into trade societies, be placed at a disadvantage? While he had no fear of trades unions, and believed their mistakes were far less important than the benefits they had conferred—such was not the opinion of many who opposed this Bill, and the course they were adopting would tend to create the agitation they wished to avoid. The attitude of the working classes should not be construed into indifference—legislation had in former times afforded them relief—its beneficial results were now universally recognized—and the working classes relying on the justice of their claims, and the Report of the Commissioners, had patiently
 1778 1779 "Limit the labour of multitudes of men who are entitled to the unrestricted use of all means of obtaining an honest livelihood—place obstacles to the free employment of capital and machinery which may endanger the continued extension of British manufactures and industry, which will reduce the time of work in this country, and consequently, the production of machinery and workmen far below that which is found to exist in foreign countries." 1780 s d d s s 1781
 MR. W. HOLMS : In addressing this House for the first time, I venture to crave that indulgence which is usually given to a new Member. I most heartily concur in what has been said by the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Mundella) with reference to the benefits which the working classes have derived from the existing Factory Acts, and I also concur with him in believing it to be very desirable that we should now have further legislation on the subject; but, notwithstanding the eloquent statement he has made, I am not prepared to look upon the present Bill as likely to be other than bad and mischievous in its actual operation. The question of regulating the hours of labour for children, young persons, and women is so closely connected with the social well-being of the working classes and the commercial prosperity of the country that it demands our most serious consideration, and yet
 1782 1783 1784 1785 1786 1787 "Pray that the Bill should not pass, because they hold that adult women ought to he entirely free to sell their labour without further restrictions from the Legislature, whereas, by the proposed Bill, working women would be reduced to the condition of children, incapable of thinking and acting for themselves. The tendency of all legislation restricting the labour of women," the petitioners go on to say, "is to drive them out of the labour market, and place them in unfair competition with men." 1788 1789
 MR. TENNANT  said, as the Representative of a large manufacturing town which would be seriously affected by the Bill, and as an employer of factory labour, and expressing the views of many other large manufacturers, he wished to make a few remarks upon the subject. He fully concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that a question of such vast importance, one which affected upwards of 1,000,000 of operatives, 150 millions of capital, and £30,000,000 of annual wages, should be left in the hands of the Government. In accordance with that opinion he had placed an Amendment upon the Paper to the effect—
 "That, having regard to the extreme desirability of some measure for the amendmemt of the Factory Acts being passed during the present Session, and to the magnitude and importance of the interests involved, it is, in the opinion of this House, the duly of Her Majesty's Government to deal with the subject and not to leave the settlement to the delay and uncertainty attendant on the promotion of Bills by private Member;" 1790
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that as appeals had been made to the Government from both sides of the House, it would not be respectful in him to allow the debate to go further without explaining the views of Her Majesty's Government on the question. The Government were deeply impressed with the importance of the matter, and of the issue now before the House, and anyone looking at the amount of industry in the country connected with the subject, could not help feeling the greatest possible anxiety that if the question was to be settled at all, it should be done upon a sound basis which was likely to make it a final
 1791 1792 1793 1794 1795 "It could not be denied that the factory cripples of Lancashire and Yorkshire were a remarkable sight, it being a common expression, that they seemed almost as numerous, in proportion to the industrial towns of these counties, as sailors were in Liverpool to its general population. Happily, now there are none of these specimens of deformity lift—nothing but the historical fact that, those who agitated the factory question between 10 and 50 years age seem to have hit upon their causes and the remedy, for no sooner was the excessive overwork stopped, and the age of admission to work advanced, than cripples disappeared altogether." 1796 "On the question whether there should he this reduction in the hours of factory labour or not, I would only add that with ail the facts which I have endeavoured to detail in this Report with accuracy and clearness, divesting them of all prejudice and bias, being desirous only of bringing them to bear on the question of shorter hours consistently with moderation, and the great interests involved, viewing them also in the light of days past and present, in the enlarged desires of the young for greater opportunities of intellectual culture, looking, too, at the ideas of liberty of labour which a very high rate of wages and cheap trains have evoked and fostered, I venture to express an opinion that there is ground for a reduction in the hours of labour in the factories, great and small in which general term I include workshops." 1797 1798 1799 1800
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he had intended, before they heard the very able and candid speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, to vote for the second reading of the Bill of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Mundella). He (Mr. W. E. Forster) had been an original advocate of the Ten Hours Bill, and he believed the time had now come when there were good reasons for shortening the hours of work for both women and children in factories, and he was glad that the right hon. Gentleman sketched out a Bill for the purpose, which he put beside that of the hon. Member for Sheffield, and the question now was, what that hon. Member should do. For himself, he saw no reason why the second reading of the present Bill should not be taken that day, and why the alterations proposed by the Government should not be made in it by Amendments in Committee. ["No, no!"] If, however, in a matter of such importance, the Government felt they ought to bring it before the House in words of their own drawing, objection could hardly be taken fairly to their doing so. On the other hand, it would be very unfair to his hon. Friend's Bill that it should be negatived; therefore he thought the best course would be not to take a decision now on his hon. Friend's Bill, but to adjourn the debate, until they had an opportunity of seeing the measure which the Government intended to bring in, when his hon. Friend would be able to decide whether it was necessary for him to proceed with his measure.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that after the statement of the Home Secretary, he assumed that the Bill of the hon. Member for Sheffield had virtually dropped, and its place been taken by another, to be introduced by the Government, and for the discussion of the proposals contained in which, he presumed, an opportunity would be given hereafter, He wished, therefore, to say that he did not mean to surrender without protest the principle that the time had come when they ought not to sanction any further
 1802
 MR. MUNDELLA  thanked the Home Secretary for the very fair and candid manner in which he had dealt with the subject, but wished to keep his Bill on the Paper until the Government's measure was before the House. He should therefore accept the advice of his right hon. Friend the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), and would suggest that the debate be adjourned to that day fortnight.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  asked when the Bill of the Government was likely to be introduced?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, it was already in the hands of the draftsman, and would be brought in as soon as possible.
 SIR THOMAS BAZLEY  said, that he, too, would accept the proposals of the Government, at least for discussion, and should withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL HOGG : In reply, Sir, to the Question of my hon. and gallant Friend, I can assure him that the nuisance of which he complains does not proceed in any way from the sewers under the control of the Metropolitan Board of Works, who are charged with the care of the main sewers only, and have nothing whatever to do with the local ones, or with the care of the roadways of the metropolis. I believe that inquiries are being made by the local authorities concerned into the causes of the nuisance to which he refers, and that steps are being taken to remove, if possible, the grounds of complaint.
 SIR HENRY SELWIN IBBETSON  said, he would have no objection if the hon. Member would call at the Home Office. The only reason why he did not lay the Correspondence on the Table was that it was exceedingly voluminous and partly confidential.
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the statement which has appeared in "The Times" is correct, that Captain Tyler, one of the Inspectors of Railways under the Board of Trade, is going to America for the purpose of examining into and reporting to certain City firms upon the condition and financial prospects of the Erie Railway; and, whether he is undertaking this employment with the sanction of the President of the Board of Trade?
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, in consequence of the reply of the right hon. Gentleman, he should put some Questions on going into Committee of Supply, in order to enable the House to express its opinion on the subject.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT , in seconding the Amendment, expressed his entire concurrence in every word which had fallen from his right hon. Friend with respect to the uselessness of these slow-going vessels, which had no fighting qualifications as a set-off to their want of speed. In fact, he would go farther, and say that ships built to maintain an estimated speed of nine and a-half knots an hour would not in ordinary use attain a speed of more than eight knots. When hon. Members knew that a boat on the Thames the other day attained a speed of 20 miles an hour, the Admiralty ought to go to any expense to attain greater speed for a small description of cruisers, instead of going on building
 1848 Inflexible Inflexible 1849
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT  explained that he referred only to the side armour.
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT  said, he had in his speech referred to a Report wherein his opinion was fully expressed as to where he should place the armour.
 MR. GOLDSMID  rose to Order. He said he should be very glad to hear what the hon. Member had to say; but he understood that the hon. Member had already spoken on the Question that "the Speaker do leave the Chair." He wished to know whether it was competent for him to again address the House?
 MR. SULLIVAN : Sir, late as is the hour, and anxious as hon. Members are to close the debate, I rise to assure the House that there is underlying this Motion a very serious and very important question. That is, the question of the relations and attitude of the Irish Judiciary towards the Crown and towards the people. The right hon. and learned Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) in bringing forward this Motion, expressly and emphatically disclaimed any idea of a personal attack on Mr. Justice Lawson. But personalities have been dragged, and needlessly dragged, into the debate by the speech just delivered from the Treasury Bench. ["No, no!"] The Attorney General for Ireland, speaking for and defending his own class, the political lawyers—a class against which, as we well know, there lies grave and weighty accusation on this very subject—the Irish Attorney General, I say, with more vehemence than logic, has made a violent, personal attack on the right hon. and learned Member for Clare, imputing to him unworthy motives and covert designs; absolutely denouncing the Motion before the House. I can tell the Irish Attorney General that if that is the way this Motion is to be encountered, we are ready to meet him. I can tell the right hon. and learned Gentleman that we Irish Members are not going to sit tamely silent here when the occupants of the Treasury Bench can only reply by almost menace to one of our number who has done his duty and no more. But the real question raised by the right hon. and learned Member for Clare is one far more important than the personal merits or de-
 1895 and The Times and The Times Blackstone; 1896 cheers laughter 1897
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the Vote was additional to the £800,000 already voted, but he did not think the whole £100,000 would be required to meet the undefrayed expenditure.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  expressed an opinion that the Vote would be more economically administered by the Army than by the Navy.
 MR. HUNT  said, that if the hon. and gallant Member's financial views were adopted it would be necessary for the Navy and Army respectively to manufacture their own ordnance.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that after the very able and temperate speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Taunton (Sir Henry
 1899 1900
 MR. STANLEY , in reply, said, he had ascertained from Sir Garnet Wolseley that it was his intention, had he remained on the West Coast of Africa, to withdraw as soon as possible all the White troops from the interior, leaving 100 Houssas, under command of native officers, at Prahsu, and also 50 natives at Mansu. Sir Garnet Wolseley, on retiring as he did in a hurry from the country, left a message informing Colonel Maxwell, who succeeded him, what his intention had been in this respect, and a letter had been received from Colonel Maxwell, stating that steps had been taken to carry out the arrangement. With native troops, commanded by native officers, the presence of a European medical officer was unnecessary at Prahsu.
 MR. STANLEY , in reply, said, it was held to be unnecessary to give to commanding officers power on their own responsibility to order the immediate sale of dangerously vicious horses. Under the Queens Regulations commanding officers could apply to the War Office on the subject through the proper channel, and, on the approval of the Secretary of State, such horses could be sold. It was not thought expedient to alter the existing system.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether any steps have been taken to re-
 1839
 LORD KENSINGTON  said, he should move that evening for a New Writ to be issued for Dudley, as the Motion was unopposed. He should move for New Writs for Stroud to-morrow.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  asked the President of the Local Government Board. Whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill this Session for the better maintenance of Highways in England and Wales?
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he thought that the remarks of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the City of Oxford (Sir William Harcourt) had, unfortunately, led the House away from the Motion that was before it—namely, the speed that should be given to gunboats of a certain class. If the Correspondence which his hon. and learned Friend had commented upon at such length was to be brought before the House, he thought it should have been done after duo Notice, as it was manifestly inconvenient that it should be discussed when the last Paper in connection with that subject had only been delivered this morning; but his hon. and learned Friend had done more than cause inconvenience. He had not quoted those passages in the last Correspondence which did not so well suit his case; he referred particularly to the strongly expressed opinion of Sir Spencer Robinson, who, at page 14, said—
 "Either the shipbuilding programme will not be fulfilled, or if that be adhered to faithfully, the maintaining programme will fall far short of the necessities of the service—the work contemplated will certainly not be performed." 1861 Inflexible Devastation Devastation Cyclops, 1862
 MR. BROGDEN  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has any objection to lay before the House Copies of the letter or letters to the Magistrates of the Country respecting the operation of the Licensing Act?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have considered the subject to which my hon.
 1841
 MR. DISRAELI : Both sides of the House will, I think, agree that no undue
 1845
 MR. DISRAELI : No, Sir, we propose merely to continue the present Acts.
 MR. SAMUELSON , in rising to call the attention of the Blouse to the proposed appointment of a Royal Commission on Railway Accidents, and to move—
 "That any inquiry into the causes of Accidents on Railways should include an investigation into the existence or otherwise of sufficient Railway accommodation in various districts for conveying the growing traffic of the Country with safety and economy, and into the means most advantageous to the public of supplying any deficiencies which may appear to exist," 1878 1879 The Times, 1880
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY  said, he was glad the hon. Member for Banbury (Mr. Samuelson) had brought the subject forward, and he believed the Commission could be constituted in a way satisfactory both to the companies and the public. It should not attempt to do what the companies had not done for themselves; but it would investigate the causes of accidents, and with the most perfect good-will towards the companies would attempt to find out facilities for their doing what the public had a right to demand of them. The hon. Member thought that—
 "Any inquiry into the causes of accidents on railways should include an investigation into the existence or otherwise of sufficient Railway accommodation in various districts for conveying the growing traffic of the Country with safety and economy, and into the means most advantageous to the public of supplying any deficiencies which might appear to exist," 1882
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, the question of compelling large passenger ships with numerous passengers to carry boats sufficient for all the persons on board has been frequently considered by the Emigration Commissioners and by the Board of Trade. But it is impossible; because there is not room for such boats, and because by encumbering the decks they would render the safe working of the ship impracticable. Further, even the boats now required are seldom found to be practically available in those cases of wreck in which they are most required. No rafts or other appliances for saving life have yet been discovered which would be practically available; and attempted contrivances might lead to more lives being lost by needlessly leaving a ship, than to any increase of lives being saved in real emergencies.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : I hope, Sir, that the Judge Advocate, who was one of the Royal Commissioners appointed to inquire into this subject, will be able to introduce a Bill for the verification of the standards this Session, but not dealing with the use of the metric system.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, Captain Tyler is going on leave for two months, after two years' duty without taking any. I believe he intends spending his time on leave in the manner supposed in the Question; but it is entirely a private arrangement of his own, without any official character.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government will consent to the Address relating to the Laws, Ordinances, &c. in force in Foreign Countries with respect to Monastic and Conventual Institutions, of which Notice has been given, on the understanding that the Documents requested by the Address are such as have been published in the Countries to which they relate, and would be furnished in several cases by extracts from the general Codes of Law in force in those Countries, provided such extracts comprise all that in such Codes applies to the subjects of the Notice?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked the right hon. and learned Member for Clare County whether he intended to oppose the Motion?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, in that case, he should postpone his Motion until the 2nd of June.
 MR. D. E. PLUNKET  said, he would not detain the House for many minutes. He did not wish to address them merely for the purpose of adding his own humble testimony to that of every lawyer who had spoken on either side of the House, except the right hon. and learned Baronet who had brought forward the Motion, as to its absolute want of foundation in point of law, but merely for the purpose of protesting against the course suggested by the hon. and learned Member for Taunton (Sir Henry James), who advised that the Motion should be withdrawn. He did not consider it necessary to vindicate the character of Mr. Justice Lawson, which had been assailed because that learned Judge was ready fearlessly to fulfil the duty which the law imposed upon him—although his character had been reproached in a manner more dangerous, more injurious, and far more unworthy than an open attack. Yet it had been admitted by those who made these insinuations that he was a man whoso character was above suspicion. ["No, no!"] Let the hon. Gentleman opposite who cried "No, no," so loudly have the courage of his opinions and rise in his place and explain himself. Everyone, he repeated, who had spoken in the debate had admitted that Mr. Justice Lawson's character was above suspicion. Neither would he go over the ground he had once before trodden in this House in defending the character of Mr. Justice Keogh, against whom, in his absence that night, accusations the most malignant had been levelled. Those reckless imputations were formally
 1901
 MR. E. J. REED  observed that, inasmuch as the Mover of the Amendment thought it desirable that we should increase our armoured shipbuilding, and its Seconder thought we should cease ail work in that direction, it might be desirable to give the Resolution some farther consideration. When he first saw the terms of the Motion he was under the impression that it was a very proper one, because he thought he saw in the large number of the small unarmoured vessels which were being built a tendency to some extravagance in that direction. But it was really only fair to say that the cause of these small unarmoured vessels being built was the demand of the naval members of the Board of Admiralty for them. During the whole period he had the honour of serving at the Admiralty, the Senior Sea Lords felt it was very desirable to have an increased number of small vessels, and it was only proper to add to that consideration the fact that they could not have very small vessels of great speed. There were different classes of small vessels, and the speed increased with the increase in their size. There were vessels of 270 tons which were very slow, going only a little over nine knots an hour on the measured mile, and probably about six or seven knots at sea. Above these there was another class, that of 450 tons, with a speed of 11 knots at the measured mile, and nine or 10 knots at sea. Then came vessels of 930 tons, with a speed at the measured mile of 13 knots, the practical speed of which would be about 11 or 12 knots; and next a class of vessels of 2,000 tons, which were to have a measured mile speed of 15 knots, and a
 1850 1851 Inflexible
 MR. E. STANHOPE  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government intends to propose a Vote for the purpose of acquiring for the British Museum, any part of the interesting collection of antiquities formed by Dr. Schliemann during his recent excavations in the Troad?
 COLONEL LEIGH  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether power may be given to commanding officers of cavalry regiments to order, on their own responsibility, the immediate sale of dangerously vicious troop horses; or, should that not be considered advisable, to give directions to inspecting officers to cast every horse reported to them as dangerously vicious?
 MR. ANDERSON , as the mover of the Sessional Order referred to, wished to say that it applied only whore there had been bribery and corrupt practices. It would not, therefore, act as an improper obstacle to the issuing of New Writs in cases where there had been no bribery or corrupt practices. Where there had been, there ought to be an obstacle to the issue of New Writs, and where there had not, the declaration of the Prime Minister that the Government would offer no obstacle to the issue of New Writs would meet the case. The Rule was a satisfactory one, and it might be left as it stood until the beginning of next Session.
 MR. ANDERSON  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government has considered the expediency of resuming diplomatic relations with Mexico (suspended since the death of the Emperor Maximilian); and, whether he is prepared to inform the House what decision has been come to?
 MR. BENTINCK  rose to address the House, but—
 MR. BENTINCK  assured the right hon. Gentleman that he had not intended to impute anything which was at all derogatory to him, but he had just obtained from him an admission that certain representations had been made and acted upon.
 MR. BENTINCK : It was now quite clear that the impression he had formed was correct, and he gave the right hon. Gentleman credit for having in the first place acted upon the representation made to him, and then for having had the candour to admit it. The House had heard an elaborate defence of the conduct of the late Board of Admiralty; but what was the opinion of high autho-
 1876 The Times, The Times Ironical Cheers.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought that the speech of the President of the Board of Trade would lead to great misconception in the country, or at least to a feeling of great regret as to the view of Her Majesty's Government upon the question of railway management. There was a strong conviction in the mind of the country that a large number of the accidents which had occurred within the last few years could have been prevented by the adoption of proper precautions, and that proper precautions would not be adopted except by the intervention of the Government of the day. He contended, therefore, that so long as the Government allowed the question to be dealt with by Committees and Commissions it neglected those duties which it was imperatively called upon to perform, and was responsible for these accidents.
 MR. BENTINCK , while willing to make every allowance for the difficult position of the present First Lord of the Admiralty, confessed that he should have been much more satisfied if that right hon. Gentleman had told them he was about to take more active steps than he now appeared to contemplate for remedying the unfortunate state in which his predecessors had left the Navy. He could only hope that next year the Government would deal with that question in a much more effectual manner. The right hon. Gentleman laid great stress on the word "we;" but it appeared the other night that his naval advisers made representations which he submitted to the Cabinet, and on their rejection of which he was content to remain in office.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, there had been no contradiction of the statement that the naval advisers of the Admiralty distinctly represented that the condition of the Navy was not what it ought to be; that the right hon. Gentleman submitted this to the Cabinet; and that no action was taken.
 MR. BENTINCK  wished to know whether the statement was a complete fiction, and whether during the late Board's tenure of office no expression of opinion was given by the naval advisers that the condition of the Navy was unsatisfactory?
 MR. BENTINCK  entirely acquitted the right hon. Gentleman of any intention to deceive the House; but he (Mr. Bentinck) had been long enough in the House to know that official denials were often very misleading—and, without assuming for a moment that there had been any intention to deceive the House, he must repeat that the right hon. Gentleman's answer was not satisfactory. His belief, from what had been stated in debate, was that the naval advisers remonstrated with the late Board as to the condition of the Navy, and that those remonstrances were not acted upon—a great cause of mismanagement being the composition of the Board. The hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Sir William Harcourt) had ridiculed the idea of any possible combination of foreign Powers attacking this country, or of any possibility of finding ourselves in conflict with two large Powers. That, however, was a very unsafe assertion, as we could never tell what combinations might arise. Our foreign policy of late years had been to irritate and offend every country in Europe, whilst our home policy had been to denude ourselves of every means of offence and defence by which we could make ourselves respected. Europe was rife with causes of strife, yet we had only a Channel and, perhaps, a flying squadron, with no Naval Reserve to fall back on in case of casualty, and with an Army reduced almost to a minimum. This was a very unsafe position, when nobody could tell what iron-clads would do in action; and it was unwise to depend on private yards. He asked the House whether any amount of argument or sophistry could convince them that, considering the insular position of the country and its extended commerce, our naval defences were what they ought to be? The hon. and learned Member had complained of the constant changes of policy at the Board of Admiralty; but how was it possible, with the present composition of the Board, that there could be continuity of policy or system? The most important Department of the
 1875
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for admitting that a representation had been made and acted upon. At last he had got at the truth, but it took a long time to extract it—["Oh, oh."]—not from any intention of the right hon. Gentleman to mislead the House, but owing to the tendency of official habits.
 MR. DIXON  asked the President of the Local Government Board, whether his attention has been called to the depositions and verdict respecting the death of Mary Day, of Lasham, Hampshire; and whether it is true, as is alleged, that her death was "accelerated by her exposure and wretched condition, which were the consequence of the want of proper and efficient sanitary supervision and inspection;" and if so, what steps he proposes to take in the matter?
 MR. GOSCHEN : I must rise to Order. The hon. Member speaks of official habits making it almost impossible to extract the truth. I submit that it is scarcely right in him to make such a statement. The hon. Member himself seems never to recollect the charges he makes, and drifts on from one to another.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he could not allow that statement to pass uncontradicted. The advice to which the hon. Gentleman referred had not been disregarded. He had been advised to add 800 men to the strength of the Navy, and that addition figured in the Estimates which he had prepared.
 MR. GOSCHEN  replied that this was a totally different statement. One statement was that the naval advisers simply made certain representations to the Admiralty; the other was that the Naval Lords made representations to himself, that he refused to act on his own responsibility, that he submitted them to the Cabinet, and that he remained in office without the representations having had any effect. The last statement, he had from the first flatly contradicted. His hon. Friend (Mr. Shaw Lefevre) also denied that any formal statement such as that alluded to had been made to him by his naval advisers as to the inefficiency of the Navy. His hon. Friend stated that there had been constant conversations in the intimacy of the relations between
 1874
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, if he had not contradicted it before, he would contradict it now in the most decided manner.
 MR. GOSCHEN : I have contradicted in the strongest terms that such a step had ever been taken.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he was very glad this Motion had been made, because it was of the greatest importance that no more money than was absolutely necessary should be spent upon any class of ships not of the best calibre. The efforts of the country had for some time past been so concentrated on the building of ironclad ships that we had got into arrear with respect to unarmoured vessels, and he had felt it to be his duty to insert in his programme the construction of such ships as those described by his hon. Friend the Member for Pembroke (Mr. E. J. Peed). Those ships did admirable duty in every part of the world—in the waters of China, on the East African Coast, at Indian stations in connection with the suppression of piracy, and they had done good service on the West Coast of Africa. The House would see that it would be a sheer waste of power to send out large ships for these duties.
 1871 The Navy List Superb, Téméraire. 1872 Orontes, Himalaya
 MR. GOSCHEN  asked how many men would be required for the depot ships at Hong Kong and Jamaica?
 MR. GOSCHEN  asked the right hon. Gentleman to state what would be the cost of lengthening the  Orontes
 MR. GOSCHEN : The same admission had been made the other evening by the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw Lefevre).
 MR. HUNT  would rather not say, as the work was at present a subject of tender.
 MR. HUNT  was not prepared to say, because it had not yet been determined what vessels were to take the place of the depot ships. There were 550 men to be employed on the ships now in progress, and about 225 for the boilers and depot ships. That was only a rough estimate, because, until the ships were thoroughly examined, it would be impossible to determine upon the exact number of men required. Then came the question with regard to the tug at Chatham, which might seem a very contemptible matter to the soaring mind of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Oxford (Sir William Harcourt); but when it was considered that a tug was the moving power to bring large ships in and out of harbour, it would be seen that if we had no such locomotive power the whole business of our Dockyards might be at a standstill. Although the sum was a small one, the question was not altogether a small one. He had received a representation from Malta to the effect that they had only one tug
 1868 Orontes. Himalaya Orontes Orontes 1869 Orontes
 MR. HUNT  said he would reserve the explanation he was about to give for the Committee. He had stated what his views were with regard to the appropriation of the money he should ask the Committee to grant in order to put the Navy in a more satisfactory state than he thought it was at present. With respect to the comparatively small questions raised in regard to whether it was desirable to go on with certain gunboats which had less speed than 10 knots, he thought the hon. Member for Pembroke (Mr. E. J. Peed) had stated very fairly what was the true answer. The answer was that these gunboats were intended for certain special services. On the West Coast of Africa, at the West Indies, and in other places these gunboats had been found to be serviceable, particularly on account of their light draught and their speed; and as to their armament, it was sufficient for the purpose they were intended to serve. They were not designed for general fighting purposes, and, this being so, the arguments of his right hon. and gallant Friend (Sir John Hay) in regard to them did not apply. With regard to the Motion of his right hon. and gallant Friend, he almost accepted it, inasmuch as it was not intended to build any unarmoured vessels of less speed than 10 knots an hour. Three new gunboats were to be commenced by contract this
 1870 Coquette Arab Fantóme Magicienne
 MR. HUNT  said, that after the speech of his hon. and learned Friend opposite (Sir William Harcourt), it would be necessary for him to call the attention of the House to the exact issue before it. The Amendment under consideration was—
 "That it is undesirable to incur expense to build Unarmoured Ships of less than ten knots, and that it is expedient that the money appropriated to their construction be applied to the necessary repairs of the Iron-clad Ships of the Navy." 1863
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought that was no inconsiderable reduction in the number he had mentioned. The hon. Member for Pembroke (Mr. E. J. Reed), whose knowledge and experience made him an authority who ought to be looked up to with respect, seemed to think he was wrong in having acquiesced to a certain extent in the suggestion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Samuda) in reference to having a scheme for the Navy. His idea, however, was not that for a certain number of years we should build a certain number of vessels of a particular class, but that we should endeavour to have a scheme which would give us a succession of ships, to take the place of those which were obliged to come in for repairs. His hon. and learned Friend, with that light sarcasm which the House knew so
 1864 1865 1866 Shannon. Shannon Shannon Superb, Inflexible, 1867
 MR. MELLY  expressed a hope that the same courtesy would be extended to him by permitting him to see this Correspondence.
 CAPTAIN G. PRICE  said, he did not profess to know exactly what occurred behind the scenes at the Admiralty; but he supposed they did not go to their advisers and ask what money should be spent, or what number of men should be employed. They would rather say to their advisers—"Here is the sum of money which the country is willing to give, and you must not go beyond it." In the Papers which had just been placed in the hands of Members, Sir Spencer Robinson wrote, in April, 1871, he did not profess to say that in his judgment
 1859 Devastation Monarch Fury hors de combat Monarchs Furies 1860
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, my attention has been called to the peculiar circumstances attending the death of the wife of a labourer in the Alton Union, and before Notice of this Question had been given, inquiry had been made of the Alton Guardians upon the subject, and the inspector of the district had also been directed to investigate the circumstances. The deceased and her husband were remarkable people, of settlement unknown, who are said to have lived for many years in different parts of the country in some such habitation as that in which the woman died, the man always in good work and known to have earned regular wages on different farms in the district. The result of the inquiries fails to fix any special blame upon the sanitary authority or its officers. It is true that there has been no appointment of Medical Officer of Health in this particular district, because the Guardians have not been able to come to terms with the person they wished to appoint, but they will be required to proceed immediately to do so. As to the Inspector of Nuisances, it would have been undoubtedly his duty to report the case as one of a dwelling unfit for human habitation had he been aware of its existence; but the situation of the place being more than a mile away from the village and far from any public road, it is easy to understand that, in the absence of special information, he was not aware of it. He appears, moreover, to be doing his work very well, and an examination of his books proves that cases of over-crowded dwellings have been reported by him and dealt with on his report by the Guardians, and that in one particular case a hut like the one in which the death now in
 1836
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply said, that it was not the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill for that purpose this Session; but he hoped it might be in his power to make some proposal on the subject next year.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, he must decline to enter into many of the subjects touched upon by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as what they had now to consider was the Motion of the right hon. and learned Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen). When his right hon. and learned Friend made his speech he (Sir Henry James) supposed he intended to submit to the House a broad Constitutional doctrine; and so long as the discussion was con-lined to such a view, he (Sir Henry James) was sure it would have attention and sympathy. An abstract proposition was nothing if it was put forward without sufficient cause or on insufficient grounds; and in bringing forward the Motion, or in supporting it, they should be careful to place themselves beyond the suspicion of making any covert attack upon the Judge whose name; was associated with it. He was sure his right hon. and learned Friend had no such object, and that, when he enumerated the many high positions which Judge Lawson filled, he did not mean to convey anything but that the learned Judge had honestly gained them. If an attack against him had been intended, the Motion would not have been framed as it had been, and the right hon. and learned Gentleman would have spoken in less ambiguous language; and, if the discussion had wandered a little away from the abstract proposition, his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland—with perhaps the most natural desire to defend the position of the Judge from an attack
 1898
 MR. ROBERTSON  expressed a hope that the Commission would comprise men of sufficient practical knowledge to enable them to arrive at a proper conclusion on a question of so much importance, and that the question would be treated with a view to really practical results. It was no light matter to touch works which had cost £600,000,000. He did not deny that unpunctuality contributed to accidents; but every experienced manager of a railway would tell them that from a variety of causes unpunctuality was the normal state of our
 1883
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON , in reply, said, that there had been some Correspondence with the police superintendents, with whom the Home Office had on a former occasion corresponded on the subject. The answers received in reply to the letter written were of a confidential character; but he should have no objection to show them to the hon. Member if he would call at the Home Office, though he did not think it advisable to lay them on the Table.
 MR. BELL , as a director of one of the largest railway companies in the Kingdom, could assure the hon. Member for Banbury (Mr. Samuelson) that no impediment would be thrown by the railway interest in the way of this inquiry. The traffic in some cases had outgrown the powers of the companies to compete with; but he doubted if the Amendment would attain the object desired. As to loans, companies with little traffic did not require additional sidings and accommodation, while companies which did require them could not expect loans of public money for that purpose.
 MR. GRIEVE  asked, Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he has fully considered Memorials to the Treasury from Outdoor Officers of Customs at the various outports, praying to be placed on the same footing as the clerks, regarding back pay from 1870; and also if he has
 1838
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the proposition of the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, was that the Judge on whom the Act of Parliament had cast the duty of trying an Election Petition was, for reasons not contained in that Act, to be incapacitated from discharging that duty, and that, too, without there being any provision for another Judge to take his place. The intention of the Act was, as far as possible, to provide that the Judge should not be picked by design for a particular case, and, accordingly, under it the Judges were to be chosen for each year by a rota framed long anterior to the case, and to take the duty in turn according to their seniority. When the right hon. and learned Gentleman cited an Act of Parliament, he ought to cite the whole section. When he found that a Judge from illness could not go, he ought to have observed that the Judge to take his place must be chosen out of the same Court—namely, cither Mr. Justice Keogh, whom the right hon. and learned Gentleman had arraigned in language which the House had heard, or Mr. Justice Morris, the brother of the hon. Member for the City of Galway. The Act expressly provided that the Judges for the time being on the rota should, according to seniority, respectively try the Election Petitions
 1889 Murmurs "I have long known Mr. Justice Lawson, and I have never known an abler or more honourable man."—[3  Hansard, 1890 1891
 DR. LUSH  asked the President of the Local Government Board, If his attention has been called to the circumstances detailed at an inquest hold by the coroner of Hants upon the body of a labourer's wife named Day, in the parish of Lasham, in the Alton Union; whether he will insist upon the immediate appointment of a Medical Officer of Health for that Union; and, whether
 1835
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  said, that the fallacy which ran through the arguments of Members on the other side of the House was that they seemed to think the Puisne Judges in Ireland were in the same position as those in England. In England these Judges were non-political men, in Ireland they were political men, and interfered to a greater extent in the government of the country. As to
 1902
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to call the attention of the Speaker and of the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister to a new Rule making an alteration in the moving of Writs for the election of Members of the House. It was that in a case in which a Report had been made by a Judge who had sat on the trial of an Election Petition, certain Notice should be given before a Motion was made for the issue of a New Writ. Such Notice of Motion was put upon the Notice Paper as an ordinary Notice of Motion, and one consequence of this was if it were opposed it could not come on after half-past 12 o'clock; and owing to the difficulty of bringing on Motions before half-past 12 the issue of a Writ might be postponed for weeks, and even months, until the end of the Session. He wished to ask the Speaker, Whether an hon. Member could move a Writ in a case of this sort at the hour at which Writs were usually moved for; and, if not, he wished to ask the Prime Minister whether the Rule ought not to be altered? The question was one which was of infinite interest and importance to the House, as the issue of a Writ affected its constitution; and, if
 1844
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that it had not been his intention to make any such proposal in the Clauses which it would be his duty to place upon the Paper for insertion in the Bill recently laid before the House by his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The question was one of some difficulty. Those lines had hitherto been employed for the very useful purpose of increasing the salaries of the Clerks of Petty Sessions, many of whom were very poorly paid. He would, however, consider the matter, and he hoped to be able to submit to the House some proposals which would be satisfactory.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  observed that there was one conclusion which everyone who had listened to this debate must have arrived at, and that was that the Judges in Ireland could not be overworked if they were able to undertake so many extra duties as the learned Judge in question had undertaken. When one of the Judges of the Common Pleas was able at the same time to take a paid office from the Crown, administering property to the value of several millions sterling a-year, which the Prime Minister told them the other day would continue for 17 years, also to fill one-third part of the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and, in addition, to discharge the duties of one of the Commissioners of National Education, no rational man could fail to come to the conclusion that there must be something behind the scenes in regard to the appointment of the Judges in Ireland. ["Oh, oh!"] In holding that language he believed he was backed up by nearly the whole of the Irish people. ["Divide!"] Some hon. Members were,
 1892 1893 "They were not only depriving the individual of a seat; but they ware putting it in the power of a Judge to stamp with infamy for seven years any man whom he might condemn, honestly, no doubt, but perhaps mistakenly."—[3  Hansard, 1894
 MR. MONTAGU SCOTT (for Sir HENRY WOLFF) , asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What steps have been taken to carry out the stipulation contained in the Sixth Article of the Treaty of Washington, "to bring to the knowledge of other Maritime Powers and to invite them to accede" to the three Rules contained in the said Article; whether the Government of Her Majesty and the Government of the United States are agreed as to the interpretation of this engagement; and as to the terms of the invitation to be so addressed; and, whether Her Majesty's Government will communicate to the House any Correspondence that has taken place on the subject?
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, some Correspondence has passed between Her Majesty's late Government and the Government of the United States on the subject of the Sixth Article of the Treaty of Washington, There will be no objection to lay it on the Table of the House. Since the present Administration came into office no overture has been received from the Government of the United States on the matter, and no steps have been taken to invite the other Maritime Powers to accede to the Three Rules.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the question has been and is under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government. Her Majesty's Government are willing and desirous that those relations should be resumed, and they will be prepared to receive favourably any overtures that may be made with that object by the Government of Mexico. No such overture has been made up to the present date.
 MR. BOURKE : We will endeavour, Sir, to obtain the information mentioned in the Question of my hon. Friend through our Diplomatic Representatives abroad, and place the Documents in the Library of the House; but, as it is probable that the information will be voluminous, we must ask to be allowed to suspend our judgment for the present with regard to its being printed or presented to the House. Under these circumstances, my hon. Friend will probably think it unnecessary to move the Address of which he has given Notice.
 MR. SAMPSON LLOYD  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to legislate during this Session on the whole Law of Weights and Measures; and, whether it is prepared to
 1840
 MR. WHITBREAD  recommended that in cases in which a Motion was to be exposed on the merits, it should be moved that the Orders of the Day should be postponed until after the Motion for the Writ was considered.
 MR. HANKEY , with reference to a Letter of the 3rd December 1873, from Mr. Lyon Playfair to the Lords of the Treasury, and printed in the Appropriation Accounts of Civil Service and Revenue Accounts for the year ending 31st March 1873, on page 409, asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether his attention has been directed to the statement of Mr. Lyon Playfair, that if their
 "Lordships should decide that the Order in Council" (referring to Civil Service Examinations) "cannot be departed from. I should advise that, instead of introducing an inconvenient and costly plan which will have the effect of converting a large body of temporary servants into a permanent body, that an exemption to the general rule should he made by amendment of the Order in Council;"
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that the whole subject of the organization of the public service was under consideration by a Commission, of which the right hon. Member for Edinburgh University (Mr. Lyon Playfair) was Chairman, and therefore he did not feel at liberty to express any opinion on this Question of the hon. Member.
 MR. COGAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of the Government to take steps to amend the Licensing Act so as to restore to Borough Magistrates in Ireland the power to adjudicate in cases of drunkenness, and to apply the fines inflicted for these offences to local purposes, as hitherto they were empowered under the Towns Improvement Act of 1854?
 MR. W. JOHNSTON  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether four officers have been left at Prahsu in command of a garrison of 100 men without medical assistance; and, if so, how long and for what purpose this force is to remain?
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  presumed it was open to any hon. Member to move that Motions with respect to the issue of Writs should have precedence of the Orders of the Day.
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  gave Notice that he should move to-morrow that the Motion for New Writs for Stroud should have precedence of the Orders of the Day.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  remarked that if the armour were placed at the top or the bottom of a ship, it Mould be just as expensive as if it were affixed to the sides.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT : Only three of them are postponed till 1875—namely, the  Minotaur, Black Prince,
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  offered his condolence to the first Lord of the Admiralty on the contradictory character of advice given to him by the professional Members. The pessimists only agreed in one thing—that we had no Navy—and entirely disagreed as to the way in which we should obtain one. He (Sir William Harcourt) must assume, on his own part, entire ignorance of the subject. Before the right hon. and gallant Baronet the Member for Stamford would persuade the English people to spend £1,500,000 in building unarmoured ships to replace its paper fleet, which was to be repaired at an expense of £55,000, he must come to some agreement with the hon. and gallant Admirals near him, and with the hon. Member for Pembroke (Mr. E. J. Reed), who although not in the Royal Navy, was one of the greatest naval authorities in the country, as to what those vessels ought to be. When the House was called upon to embark in this great expenditure would it not be fair, candid, and honest to admit that the people supposed to be the greatest authorities on the subject did not know what it was on which we ought to spend the money. It was not fair to assume that those who were economists were opposed to our Navy being kept up at a proper strength. Economists knew that true economy required that the security of the English nation should be provided for, and that the way to insure that security was for us to have a Navy, not only supreme, but overwhelmingly supreme, in the world he would not be unwilling to vote any sum of money necessary for that purpose. But all parties must be guided in this matter by responsible professional opinion. It was not to be expected that the present First Lord of the Admiralty would come up from Northamptonshire and out of his own inner consciousness evolve a complete naval policy. Of course he had, like every other First Lord, to rely upon the professional advice he received from those he found at the Admiralty.
 1854 1855 "The sudden expansions and reductions which the last few years have witnessed all point to a want of system in regulating this part of Naval administration. These expansions and reductions have occasioned great distress, and have been fur from promoting economical results. On considering the, question in all its bearings, I am convinced that an expenditure of about 2½ millions is amply sufficient for the real wants of the country relative to ships and dockyards, both with reference to structure and to maintenance, and that it would be dangerous and disadvantageous to reduce our normal expenditure below that amount." 1856 1857 Hercules, Sultan, Monarch, Audacious, Invincible, Iron Duke, Swiftsure, Triumph, Vanguard, Bellerophon, Albion, Agincourt, Northumberland, Minotaur, Warrior, 1858 Achilles, Black Prince, Pallas, Penelope, Favorite, Defence, Resistance, Valiant, Repulse Devastation, Thunderer, Rupert, Hector, Cyclops Glatton.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  remarked that unprofessional men, ignorant of these questions, must necessarily be extremely puzzled by the diversity of opinion among the hon. Gentlemen who ought to instruct them. First of all the right hon. and gallant Gentleman who brought forward the Amendment (Sir John Hay) and who was one of the greatest authorities on naval matters in the House, had expressed his opinion that no unarmoured vessels under a certain speed should be built. He was happy to think, however, that the First Lord of the Admiralty had not yet become a convert to the right hon. and gallant Admiral's doctrine, that we should spend £11,500,000, instead of £10,000,000, which was about the amount of the present Estimates. The First Lord had given them Supplementary Estimates for a ruined Navy—Estimates to replace a "paper fleet," and yet they only included an addition of £55,000 for Dockyards, of which £47,000 were for workmen's wages; £5,000 for repairing a ship as a depot ship at Hong Kong, which could hardly establish our European influence, and £3,000 for repairing a tug at Chatham. But the right hon. and gallant Baronet wanted £1,500,000 to build great iron-clads and fast unarmoured vessels, and he was seconded by another great naval authority, the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham (Admiral Elliot) in reference to the speed of unarmoured vessels; but the hon. and gallant Member belonged to the school of pessimists, and thought there should be no more armour vessels.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  did not imagine that because a nation had one ship more powerful than all others, it therefore had the strongest Navy. After all, nothing could be more consolatory to the House of Commons or satisfactory to the country than the character of the Supplementary Estimates for the Navy, for they would satisfy the country that a "paper fleet of dummy ships" could be replaced by an efficient one at the moderate cost of £40,000.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to deal with the Law of Election Petitions or of corrupt practices otherwise than by a continuance of the present Acts?
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  asked the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works, If anything is being done to mitigate the offensive smells proceeding from the drains at the West End?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , who had a Notice of an Amendment on the Paper, that the Address should not be agreed to, said, he certainly should move it.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in rising to call attention to the fact that the Petition against the Return of Mr. O'Donnell, one of the Members for the borough of Galway, has been set down for hearing at Galway on the 18th of May, before Mr. Justice Lawson, one of the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas in Ireland, who holds, during Her Majesty's pleasure, the office of one of the paid Commissioners of Church Temporalities in Ireland, and who is also, during Her Majesty's pleasure, one of the Lords Commissioners of the Great Seal in Ireland; and to move—
 "That this House is of opinion that a Judge of one of Her Majesty's Superior Courts of Common Law, who may accept and hold an office at the pleasure of the Crown, should not, while holding such office, act as an Election Judge under the Parliamentary Elections Act, 1868," 1885 1886 1887 1888
 MR. GOURLEY  entirely agreed with the first part of the Motion of the right hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir John Hay), as in these days of steam it was no use to have vessels of a low rate of speed. He disagreed, however, with the second part of the Motion, because many of our iron-clads were obsolete, and were really of no more use than the old wooden ships, and consequently, in his opinion, no expense ought to be incurred in repairing them, unless to fit them for being used as swift cruisers with swivel turret-guns of the longest
 1877
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Question now before the House was different from that on which the hon. Member for West Norfolk had previously spoken, and therefore he was at liberty to speak on the present question.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Supplementary Estimates having been challenged, the right hon. Gentleman was justified in making a general statement in reply; but the discussion of the details was a matter for consideration in Committee of Supply.
 MR. SPEAKER : I think the hon. Member was about to qualify his statement, and I trust that he will withdraw it.
 MR. SPEAKER : The House is aware that Motions for New Writs are treated as Motions of Privilege, and take precedence of Motions on Public Business; but lately the House passed a Resolution which the House will permit me to read to them. It is—
 That, where any Election has been declared void, under the Parliamentary Elections Act of 1868, and the Judge has reported that any person has been guilty of bribery and corrupt practices, no Motion for the issuing of a new Writ shall he made without two days' previous notice being given in the Votes."
 SIR JOHN HAY , in rising to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is undesirable to incur expense to build Unarmoured Ships of a speed of less than ten knots, and that it is expedient that the money appropriated to their construction be applied to the necessary repairs of the Iron-clad Ships of the Navy," 1847 Orontes
 SIR JOHN HAY  observed, that there were three ships in the world more powerful than any which we possessed.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have not fully considered the Memorials, because we have referred them to the Board of Customs, which has not yet reported. The Memorials are in their hands; and after we have received them and the Report of the Board of Customs, they shall be taken into full consideration. It has always been the custom to pay officers at Liverpool somewhat higher, but not very much, in consequence of the large amount of business which is transacted there. I have not the figures here before me—but they come to this—that while half of all the Customs' business is done in London, about half the remainder, or two-ninths of the whole, is done at Liverpool. It will not be possible, therefore, to put all the out-door officers at the outports in the same position as those at Liverpool, but any advance which may be made in the case of Liverpool officers will extend in proportion to those of the other outports.
 SIR WILLIAM EDMONSTONE  said, that, notwithstanding the opinion of such a scientific and excellent authority as the hon. Member for Pembroke (Mr. E. J. Reed), he did not hesitate to say that he was one of those who thought
 1852
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, he regretted that it was true the survey of Hertfordshire had been suspended; but he hoped it would shortly
 1927
 MR. SULLIVAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland. When he proposes to lay upon the Table the Clauses affecting the licensing system in Ireland which he has stated he intends to move for insertion in the Intoxicating Liquors Bill recently introduced by Government; and, whether he will afford the people of Ireland as long a period to consider those Clauses as the people of England have had to consider the Intoxicating Liquors Bill affecting them?
 MAJOR BEAUMONT  asked the First Commissioner of Public Works, if he has had under his consideration the Correspondence relative to the floors of the new buildings for the National Gallery, which was laid upon the Table of the House last Session and printed (No. 294). and if, for the sake of security from fire and of decoration, he intends to substitute mosaic for wooden floors?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, his attention had been drawn to the Correspondence in question; but that it was not his intention to reverse the decision of his predecessors, the more so that that decision was in entire accord with the wishes of the Trustees of the National Gallery.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS , in rising to move an Amendment,
 "That no new Writ for the electing of Members to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Stroud be issued until after the shorthand writer's notes of the Evidence and Judgment have been laid before this House." Vict "I further report that corrupt practices have extensively prevailed at the election to which the Petition relates." 1930 "The facts and reasons on which I report this are the following:—On and before the day of the Election, beer, bread and cheese, tea, coffee, and meat, were provided for and given to voters. These were consumed by a very large number of voters and others. The portion that each voter had was probably of trilling value; but the voters who were thus treated were generally poor labouring men. And when it is remembered they were wholly illiterate, knowing little more of the matter than that one party was called yellow and the other blue, incapable of understanding that they had any duty in relation to their vote, it is impossible to doubt that this treating not only had a strong influence in causing them to vote for those in whose favour the treating took place. And also it is impossible not to find, that those who gave and provided this entertainment, did so to cause the voter to vote for those in whose favour it was provided, It follows that this being the motive or one of the motives, or at least the contemplated result of the treating, it was corrupt." "There was evidence before me to show that many persons were guilty of corrupt practices at the election; but as the Respondents gave up their defence, confessing the determination of the Petition must be against them, did not call all the witnesses they otherwise might have called, the persons against whom such evidence was given were not heard. I cannot therefore find that corrupt practices were proved against them, and ought not to return their names as persons against whom corrupt practices were
 1931 "I have further to report that there is reason to believe that Edward Stevens, Hoary Asher, and three other persons, whose names I cannot give with certainty, absconded from the neighbourhood of Stroud to prevent an inquiry into a charge of bribery by Stevens of the four other persons." 1932 "But I feel bound to add that it was don, so openly, at least in most of the instances, I am satisfied that those who were guilty of it had
 1933 naїve 1934
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, that al-though the Motion was proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Haverford-west (Lord Kensington) there was no desire on that side of the House to press it forward in a party sense. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Londonderry (Mr. Lewis) had called the attention of the House to circumstances which, in his opinion, would justify the suspension of the Writ, and he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman when he suggested that the House would do all it could to slay corrupt practices; but it was certainly incumbent on him to show that from the suspension or delay of this Writ, some practical benefit would accrue. This question must be dealt with—they were bound to consider the constituency to some extent. Technically, the consti-
 1935 "I further report that corrupt practices have extensively prevailed at the Election to which the Petition relates," and added "the facts and reasons on which I report this are the following." 1936
 MR. STAVELEY HILL  said, that the argument of the hon. and learned Member for Taunton was, that a Commission could not inquire into treating, and that, therefore, they ought not to send down a Commission. But under the 1st and 2nd sections of the Act of 1852 the two Houses might address Her Majesty to send down a Commission when it had been reported that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed. Baron Bramwell, in the case of Stroud, did not limit his finding to the existence of corrupt practices in respect of treating only, but added that there was reason to believe that certain persons had absconded from the neighbourhood to prevent a charge
 1937 primâ facie
 MR. J. R. YORKE  said, it was not the fact that in all cases where it had been reported that corrupt practices extensively prevailed a Commission had been issued. He was a Member of an Election Commission for bribery in the case of Galway, which sat in 1866, which did not unseat either of the Members, although they found that corrupt practices extensively prevailed. He thought at that time that some action on the part of the Government would follow in the way of moving that a Commission should issue, and he had asked a Question on the point, of the right hon. Gentleman Sir George Grey, then Homo Secretary, who answered that it was not the intention of the Government to move for a Commission, but that if the Chairman of the Committee, or any other Member moved for it, the Government would give the Motion their support. He thereupon communicated with the Chairman, who declined to move in the matter, and the whole thing dropped through. He quite agreed that some principles should be laid down on the subject. Either the Government should undertake the matter, or there should be some self-acting rule by which certain words in a Report should be held to be sufficient for a Commission to follow. In the present case, as the only independent Representative of Stroud now in the House, he
 1938
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he entirely concurred in the hope and belief expressed by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Londonderry (Mr. C. E. Lewis), that this question would be approached without reference to party feeling. He had endeavoured to do so himself, and having given his best consideration to the Report of the learned Judge and to the law on the subject, he was unable to arrive at the same conclusion with his hon. and learned Friend. It was not a case in which the House would, he thought, be of opinion that the issue of the Writ should be suspended. It was only in extreme cases that the House would suspend the issue of a Writ, with the view of issuing a Commission under the Act of 1852, and its practice was not to suspend it even for a few days unless it was of opinion, from the facts before it, that there was a  primâ facie 1939
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he was sorry to differ both from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General and the hon. and learned Member for Taunton (Sir Henry James). On one point the hon. and learned Mover of the Amendment was mistaken; for by the Act of 1868 it was imperative in the case of Election Petitions that a copy of the evidence should accompany the certificate to the Speaker, and there was no doubt it did so in this case. What the hon. Member probably meant was that the evidence should be printed. But the reason he differed from the Attorney General was this. The statute said, that when it was found that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed—and those were the very words used in the present instance—the same consequences should follow as followed while the House retained its jurisdiction in these cases. The Act of 1852 showed what those consequences wore. On a joint Address of both Houses of Parliament a Commission might be issued. He was by no means contented with the exposition of the law so authoritatively laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Taunton. He did not say that the hon. and learned Gentleman was wrong; but he was not satisfied that he was right. The Commissioners would go down to inquire into corrupt practices generally, and as they were appointed on a joint Address by both Houses of Parliament, the scope of their inquiry would not be limited to the exact terms of the finding of the Judge. He could not help thinking that under the circumstances it would be premature to issue a new Writ at once.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, that because a Judge reported that treating had extensively prevailed, to issue a Commission to inquire into bribery was very much like a magistrate
 1940 laughter
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he thought that according to the Act, the Commissioners had the power of calling before them every person in the place adjudged guilty of bribery and treating, and could proceed backwards through all preceding elections until they found a pure election. He had sat on one of those Commissions himself, and well knew what sort of an
 1941
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  said, the subject had been argued as if it were a question of issuing a Commission. The House had always been very desirous, when there was an allegation that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed, to take the fullest opportunity of judging of the whole question before they determined what steps should be taken, and whether a Commission of Inquiry should issue or not. The only issue raised by the present Amendment was, whether, on the information which the House had before them now, and which consisted solely of the finding of the Judge, without any of the evidence, they were to determine that a new Writ should issue at once. The statement of the Judge was, that corrupt practices extensively prevailed at the late election. There was also an allegation that among those corrupt practices there might have been bribery as well as treating, and, according to the provisions of the Act of Parliament which tried to put down corrupt practices, treating was an offence which incapacitated any candidate proved to be guilty of it from voting again at a subsequent election. It was important that the House should be in possession of evidence in support of these facts before they determined that there was no case made out for suspending the Writ, and that it should be issued forthwith.
 1942
 MR. DISRAELI : I am sorry, Sir, the opinions of hon. Gentlemen of the long robe have not been uniform, for I, and I am sure the House, have every wish to be guided by their superior experience and learning. It struck me there was this fallacy in the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman who has just addressed the House, and who upon ail subjects, but especially those affecting our constitutional rights, is listened to with the greatest attention. The right hon. Gentleman argued the case as if the recommendations had been founded on the Report of an Election Committee, not on the Report of a Judge. The fact is, that we are to take the judgment of the Judge upon the evidence, and upon that judgment we must really rest our conclusions. With regard to the Motion of the noble Lord, I am myself indisposed to arrest the issue of a new Writ where there is a feeling—I will not say a thorough conviction, but a general feeling—in the House that we should not in the case have recourse to ulterior proceedings. I think the character of the borough ought to be considered, and, as the opinions of hon. Gentlemen of the long robe are so various, we must look to considerations of that kind. I rest upon the opinion given by the Judge on the evidence. The Judge has given us that opinion to guide us, and on the whole I am disposed to think it is our duty not to oppose the Motion for issuing a new Writ for the borough of Stroud.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  thought that was a question which ought not to be precipitately decided. The balance of the opinions which had been stated was to the effect that if the borough of Stroud had made a lapse, it might say, like the young lady in a scrape, that it was a very little one. At the same time, after the Report of the Judge, a good deal might be said in favour of not issuing the Writ—that was, if the Reports of Election Judges were worthy of the
 1943
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, that having regard to the opinion expressed by right hon. and hon. Members on the two front benches, to whom he appealed with reference to the proper course to be pursued, he thought it would only be consistent with the tone he had throughout endeavoured to assume, if he said he would prefer not to press his Amendment.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH , in rising to call the attention of the House to the urgent importance of the problems connected with the present condition and future improvement of the dwellings of working people in London, and to the memorials on this subject lately presented to Her Majesty's Government by the Royal College of Physicians and by the Council and Dwellings Committee of the Charity Organization Society (Sessional Paper, Nos. 118 and 127); and to move—
 1944 "That, in the opinion of this House, a necessity exists for some measure that will provide for the improvement of the poorest classes of dwellings in London, and that this question demands the early attention of Her Majesty's Government," * 1945 Sanitas Sanitation, omnia Sanitas." 1946 1947 1948 The Daily News "Commercial Street—Shoreditch to White-chapel—wax opened in 1852; Southwark Street in 1862; and in both streets large plots of land still remain uncovered. The new Farringdon Road is another case in point. It was opened in 1858, and very little of the surplus land has yet been built upon. The frontages are from one end to the other almost a dreary waste; the loss in the interest of the money alone amounts to nearly the whole of the principal; so that even were the land to he now sold for double what it would have fetched in 1858, the Corporation would only just recoup the loss sustained by this 14 years waiting. Meanwhile other and more serious losses have been going on. The district has lost the whole value of the parochial rates and taxes which would have been paid on inhabited houses; it has lost the increased value on the surrounding property which increased trade would have brought." 1949 "There are many large sites in and around London, suitable; for dwellings for working men, and such sites have been in the market for years unsold, simply because the price asked is far above the value. I know of one in Lambeth for sale since 1868, in which year I offered a fair price for the Peabody Trust. There are now unsold several suitable sites in Westminster, one in Goswell Street, one in Whitechapel, one in City Road: land in Westminster little used belonging to trustees who cannot sell without compulsory powers: laud in Paddington kept in a useless state by an old man quite incapable of dealing with his property, and this land is in a situation much wanting help with clean houses: a property in Westminster consisting of two plots of land, both too small to be dealt with separately, but having some of the worst houses in Westminster between the plots. These houses cannot be purchased without compulsory powers." 1950 1951 1952 1953 d d d d 1954 "I should consider that I fell short of my duty were I not to acknowledge that the operations of the City Improvement Trustees and the Directors of the City Union Railway Company, have contributed to the results. Through these operations the city has been cleared of the foulest dens of vice and profligacy, and their occupants have been scattered among a population breathing a purer moral atmosphere." "The number of dwellings in the central district of Glasgow removed by the Improvement Trustees within the last six years was 3,085 (allowing five to a family, 15,425 persons). The number in the same district removed by the City Union Railway Company represents 8,000 inmates, giving a total of 28,425." 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 "To provide against contingencies it would be expedient that these bodies should themselves have the power of rebuilding in certain exceptional cases and under proper limitations," 1960 1961 1962 s d s d d d s s d 1963 s s 1964 1965 1966 "That it is well known to your Memorialists that overcrowding, especially in unwholesome and ill-constructed habitations, originates disease, leads to drunkenness and immorality, and is likely to produce discontent among the poorer portion of the population. That it is within the Knowledge of your Memorialists that the wholesale demolition of the houses inhabited by the poor which has been carried on of late years under various railway and improvement Acts, while it has been serviceable in removing many very bad streets and dwellings, has incidentally caused much distress to the persons displaced, and has almost uniformly driven them to crowd into neighbouring quarters, which were already as full as, or fuller than, was consistent with healthiness. That private enterprise is powerless to provide the fresh and improved house accommodation which is required for those who have been expelled from their former habitations, in addition to that which is called for by the constant increase of the population, by reason of the impossibility of securing suitable sites for building. Even so rich and powerful a body as the Trustees of the Peabody Fond has been repeatedly foiled in particular attempts to obtain land to build upon." "That your Memorialists believe that the mere enabling powers which are at present entrusted to various authorities have proved, and must prove, insufficient to effect the desired object. That in the opinion of your Memorialists a remedy for these evils is urgently required." 1967
 SIR SYDNEY WATERLOW* , in seconding the Motion, said, I am glad to have an opportunity of saying a few words in support of the Resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Hastings. The subject is one in which I have taken the greatest interest for many years past. It has never been treated as a party question, and I trust never will be. On the contrary, from my own experience, I have found that right hon. and hon. Members of this House, whether sitting on the right or the left of the Chair, have rather vied with each other in their expression of sympathy with the object of the Resolution, and I trust that we may hope from this that it may be found acceptable to those who are present here to-night. I do not purpose to take up the time of the House by dwelling upon the evils of overcrowding, or drawing a picture of the wretched habitations in the narrow courts and alleys of our metropolis, in which so many of our labouring population are compelled to reside. I say compelled to reside, because it is as important to the mechanic, the costormonger, and the huckster to reside near to the place of his employment and to the markets for his trade, as it is to the merchant, and perhaps more so, since the poor man cannot afford the daily cost of transit. The proof of this is found in the high prices paid for rooms near the centres of labour. I once asked a poor woman who proposed to remove from the outskirts into London, how she could afford the extra 1 s s d s d 1968 1969 d d 1970 d d 1971
 COLONEL HOGG  said, he had pleasure in congratulating the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth) on the able manner in which he had brought that subject before the House. He could assure his hon. Friend that the Metropolitan Board was as anxious as ever it had been to do everything in its power to benefit the metropolis at large, and he certainly thought that nothing was of more importance than to endeavour to improve the character of the dwellings of the poor. He had himself gone through some places so horrible that he did not know how human beings could dwell in them. His hon. Friend who had made the Motion wanted to bring sites to those who had a demand for them. There would, he should think, be no great difficulty in that. If people who wanted sites were willing to pay the money asked for them, they would get them. The Metropolitan Board had done something to procure sites, and he was now in communication with his hon. Friend (Sir Sidney Water-low) with a view to the occupation of
 1972
 MR. PRAED  said, he wished to confirm, from his own observation, what had been said of the dwellings of the London poor. The supply of dwellings for the working classes in London was utterly inadequate. The removal of a large number of houses to make way for the railways had driven the people into
 1975
 MR. SCOURFIELD  sympathized with the object of the Resolution and was willing to support it, although he hardly knew what it was that he was to support. He was sure it was a very amiable Motion, but not one that was likely to lead to any great practical result, unless the House was prepared to assent to very strong measures indeed. He thought it must ultimately resolve itself into a question of rates, and he had a suspicion of its sounding something like
 1977
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH , in explanation, said, that he had quoted from Mr. Simon, Medical Officer of Health, who in 1865 described Sunderland as one of the worst places in regard to the dwellings of the poor. He had not alluded to what had been done in that town since 1865.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  trusted that if any measure was introduced in the direction indicated by the hon. Member for Hastings, the state of the country towns would not be forgotten, for there were in the small country towns as crowded and as filthy habitations as there were in the metropolis. They had no Peabody trusts and no largo benevolent societies to help them; and, indeed, he had still greater reliance upon self-help than upon such organizations, for he could not help observing that the labouring population had greatly improved their dwellings by means of their own savings, and by building societies established and carried on by themselves.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Hastings (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth) need have made no apology either to the House or to the Government for having brought the subject under discussion before them that evening. Speaking for himself, he would say that no one question out of the whole range of those which were likely to come before the House was nearer or dearer to his own heart. He ventured to observe a few months ago—and he was glad to hear the statement reiterated by the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken—that when they were talking about vice, intemperance, and drunkenness, and trying to keep those evils down, nothing would do that more effectually than by improving the homes where the poor people themselves lived, by making those homes happy ones, and so presenting an inducement to hardworking men to come there as the greatest possible recreation they could have. Many of the present dwellings of the poor were in such a state that no hon. Member would ever set his foot in them on any consideration if he could help it, and yet in these dens, children and families were reared without any chance of getting fresh air, and without, in fact, knowing scarcely what it was to exist properly. What wonder was it that a man with money in his pockets should steal away from his home to the public-house, and spend it there, leaving his wife and children in misery and poverty. The subject had recently been very forcibly pressed upon his attention by important deputations which he had received, and by memorials which had been presented to him by the Royal College of Physicians and the Charity Organization Society. In those memorials the state of the case was very fairly put, and the condition of London was adverted to in terms which were, perhaps, rather within than beyond the bounds of truth. The houses spoken of were represented as being over-crowded, the ventilation and the drainage as being exceedingly bad, and all the sanitary arrangements as being of the worst possible description. And it should be borne in mind that it was not only
 1984 1985 1986 1987
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  said, that he regarded the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, not only as an extremely hopeful one, but as one which he trusted he might, without presumption, describe as reflecting the greatest possible credit and lasting honour upon himself and upon the Government. He would now withdraw his. Amendment.
 THE O'CONOR DON : I do not intend to follow the noble Lord who has just addressed the House in regarding this subject as one suitable only for laughter; because this is a question of far greater importance than to be laughed down by jokes. But before I go any further I would like to make one remark on the almost concluding observation of the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr. Callan), who stated, as a matter of fact, that when a Bill of this description was brought forward in the late Parliament, every Irishman who voted in its favour had also voted in favour of the Irish Coercion Bills, or Bills that ordinarily went by the name of Coercion Bills, and that nearly all of them had lost their seats at the late Election. I cannot answer for any other hon. Member but myself, because I do not remember the names of those who took part in that Division; but I can say for myself that since I have been in this House I never
 2008
 THE O'CONOR DON : I accept the explanation of the hon. Gentleman with regard to myself; but I dare say if he looked at the Division Lists he would find the names of others as well, about whom he has been mistaken. Further, I believe on that occasion there were only eight Members representing Irish constituencies who went into the lobby against the Bill brought in by Sir Dominic Corrigan; and out of these eight Members, as I am informed, at least a majority have not been returned. But, Sir, this is not the real question at issue: I would come to what is the proposal before the House. No man in this House has naturally a greater objection to restrictive measures upon the transactions of individuals, and upon the proceedings of trades than I have. No man in this House holds a stronger opinion that we should legislate as little as possible in interfering with social arrangements or with the business of the country; and I should be the last man in this House to support a Bill such as is embodied in the Resolution before the House if I believed it would come under that description. But when I hear that argument used against a Bill for restricting the sale of liquors on Sunday, I confess I feel quite amazed; because, what is all our legislation with respect to the sale of liquors? Is it not all restrictive? Is there any man who would propose in this House that there should be unrestricted sale of liquors at every hour on every day, by every man who chose to sell them? We know that such a proposal as that would not be listened to for a moment. Therefore, there is no question here of principle—it is simply a question of degree. At the present moment you do restrict the sale of liquors on every day of the week, but you do not restrict other trades, and the question with regard to a further restriction on Sundays is not a question of principle but singly a question of de-
 2009 2010 2011 2012
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he was afraid he was unable to comply with the Motion of the hon. Baronet in the precise terms in which it stood upon the Paper. Yet he did not rise altogether for the purpose of opposing the Motion of the hon. Baronet. His only reason for raising an objection was this—that as the Motion stood upon the Paper it assumed that of which the House knew nothing, and of which it could know nothing—namely, that the Justices had acted contrary to the express provisions of an Act of Parliament. That was an argumentative statement contained in the Motion which it was hardly right to call upon the House to adopt. It assumed that which he thought the House had no right to assume, that the Justices, acting in their official capacity, had acted in direct contravention of the provisions of an Act of Parliament. The hon. Baronet said in his Motion, as it appeared on the Paper, that the Justices had granted a certificate contrary to the express provisions of the 13th section of the Crystal Palace Company's Act.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  apologized for interrupting the right hon. Gentleman, but thought it might perhaps facilitate matters if he were to say that the officers of Excise were the persons who had broken the law, and not the Justices.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that was not the effect of the Motion which the hon. Baronet had placed upon the Paper. As to the 13th section of the Crystal Palace Company's Act, he was instructed that it was simply this:—"The expenses of this Act incidental thereto shall be borne by the Company." He evidently could not see what that had to do with the question which the hon. Baronet had raised. Therefore, he did object to the last words of the Motion, "contrary to the express provision of the 13th section of the Crystal Palace Company's Act;" but he had not the
 2024
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, he was much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for allowing him to have the Return he had moved for. He was quite willing to omit from the Motion the words to which the right hon. Gentleman had objected. His main object was simply to obtain a copy of the certificate. He did not blame the magistrates; but he certainly did object to the course which the officers of the Inland Revenue Department had taken. What the magistrates did was this: They gave the licence, and they said, "You can have your licence for beer and wine, but you are not to have it for spirits or anything contrary to the Act of Parliament." Yet, in spite of that, the officers of the Inland Revenue Department gave them a licence for spirits; therefore, the right hon. Gentleman would see that he did not blame the magistrates in the slightest degree. He had no objection, however, to leave out of the Motion the words to which the right hon. Gentleman objected.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  regretted that he was not able to comply with the terms of the Motion. It was contrary to all precedent and to public policy to give the names of the witnesses; but he was prepared to give him information with regard to the amounts paid for counsels' fees, to witnesses, to law
 2026 s d s d
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would withdraw his Motion and take any Return the hon. Gentleman would give him.
 MR. DICKSON : I rise to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. R. Smyth). The unanimity which exists in Ireland on this question shows that there is no matter which is more important to the peace and welfare of the country. I have some experience as a magistrate of the degradation, and misery, and crime attendant upon Sunday drinking in Ireland, and I know how, in the great majority of cases amongst working men, they, instead of being at their work on Monday morning, stay away in consequence of having been drinking on the previous day. Were it not for the facilities for drinking which are supplied by the public-houses keeping open during the idle hours of Sunday, those men who stay away from their work on Monday would be ready and willing to go to it. The aim of the Motion is simply to aid in abating an evil which overshadows the land and has spread throughout every district in Ireland. The measure comes before the House with, I may say, almost the unanimous support of Irish Members and of the Irish people, backed by all the religious denominations throughout the country, which have long looked forward with great anxiety to its success and to the blow it will give to the vice of drunkenness that has existed, and still exists, over the country. In urging hon. Members to pass the Motion we say—"We only ask for Ireland what you have done for Scotland." I trust the House, considering the position Ireland occupies, will extend to her what it has already conferred upon Scotland. I am sure that the passing of this measure would cause a diminution in the number of habitual drunkards, by depriving them of the facilities they would have for obtaining drink on Sunday. Respectable working men would rejoice at the Legislature removing from their
 2019
 LORD CHARLES BERESFORD  said, he should oppose the Motion. He considered it a much worse evil that public-houses should be closed on Sunday than that they should be open; because people who were loud of drinking would lay in a stock of liquor on the Saturday night, and be certain to be more drunk than ever on Sunday. In the ordinary course of things, on the other hand, if people went into a public-house on a Sunday, and exhibited the least sign of inebriation, they would receive notice to quit. The hon. Gentleman's proposal was a serious thing for Ireland. Hon. Gentlemen who approved of it had good reasons to be satisfied with the working of the Forbes Mackenzie Act in Scotland; for there the people got so drunk of a Sunday as to occasion no trouble to their friends or to the police except to cart them home. If it should come to pass
 2007 "Confuse their eyes If ever they tries to rob a poor man of his beer!"
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  said, he had no objection to lay on the Table the despatches for which the hon. Member had moved. The last despatch received from Lord Northbrook intimated the noble Lord's intention of organizing
 1991
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, the total amount of the debenture debt of the Madras Irrigation Company due to the Secretary of State for India was £600,000; of this amount £228,000 has been repaid as the instalments became due, leaving £372,000 still to be paid. The Secretary of State, however, has recently given, for reasons which it is not necessary to state now, an additional two years' grace for the repayment of these debentures. The previous repayments have been made with borrowed money, and no negotiations are pending for the transfer of the works to the Indian Government.
 MR. A. SMITH  asked the First Commissioner of Works. Whether it is true that the Ordnance Survey of Hertfordshire has been suspended; and, if so, when the work will be resumed?
 MR. DISRAELI : I beg, Sir, to move. "That the Orders of the Day be postponed until after the Notice of Motion relative to the Stroud Writ." While I make that Motion, I may be allowed to give Notice of the following, which I will put on the Paper:—
 "That every Motion for a New Writ, of which Notice has been given, pursuant to the Resolution of the 30th day of April last, be appointed for consideration before the Orders of the Bay and Notices of Motions."
 MR. EGERTON HUBBARD , in rising to call the attention of the House to page 30 of the Abstract of Report of Surveys in India, 1871–2, on which it is stated that—
 "The question of the organization of a Meteorological Department in India is still under consideration: the Despatch from the Secretary of State on the subject, dated the 18th May 1871, and enclosing the Report of the Committee of the Royal Society, not yet having been answered;" 1988 1989 1990 Ocean Highways The Daily News
 MR. ANDERSON  stated that £1,300,000 had been expended by the City of Glasgow in the purchase of property extending over 85 acres out of 6,000, and 23,000 out of a population of 500,000 had been displaced. The financial results would be satisfactory; and in any large town large operations in real estate must, owing to the enhancement of the value of the property, have a successful financial result. The great question, however, was the social one—namely, what became of the vast population that was displaced? Was the effect a good or bad one? Was it really to improve the lowest class of society, or was it to corrupt the classes immediately above by spreading among them the lowest classes. Now, on that point he did not think they had sufficient evidence in Glasgow or in any other place. A good deal might be said bearing in both directions. He had endeavoured to ascertain what became of this population which was displaced, and he found that it was almost necessarily raised to the classes above it, and to a certain extent carried a corrupt influence with it. On the other hand, these other classes, being better, would to a certain extent, improve those who came among them. That there was a balance of good in the result he was satisfied; but that it was a large balance had yet to be proved.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, that the Local Government Board was empowered by the 26th section of the Public Health Act to combine several sanitary districts into one for the purpose of procuring a common water supply. In the event of their being requested to do so, the Local Government Board would be most happy to furnish any information or render any assistance in its power to promote the desired effect.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he wished to compliment his hon. Friend the Member for Hastings (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth) on the very able speech in which he had introduced the subject to the notice of the House, who, although he thought he had wisely abstained from giving the details of any measure to remedy the evils to which he had called attention, had indicated some of the re-
 1976
 MR. WHALLEY  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Whether he is prepared, if duly requested by local authorities, to afford the aid of the Government, through the agency of the Board of Health or other-vise, to obtain reliable information and promote arrangements for a better supply of water in those cases where it may be expedient to combine several towns or districts under one comprehensive system of water supply?
 MR. YEAMAN  said, he took great interest in the matter under discussion, He was surprised that seeing the action that had been taken in some large provincial towns for carrying out public improvements, no compulsory powers had been adopted in London. In other towns this evil had been remedied, and that in a practical way. But the difficulty pointed out in London was this—that it was the duty of those who displaced the people from their houses to provide other dwellings as a substitute, He was convinced no private association, whether its object was profit or philanthropy, could effectively deal with the evil; for there were so many provisions connected with property that although they might be able to arrange for the purchase of a number of houses, there might be so many rights and servitudes in connection with a single house in this or that narrow lane as to put a stop to all improvements. It was quite impossible for private enterprise to carry out any great improvements, and he thought they must fall back on compulsory powers—powers which might be acted on without inflicting any great hardship on the working classes who inhabited these houses. His own opinion was that a Bill might be passed giving compulsory power to the Metropolitan Board of Works to remove the houses in crowded parts of the City, to purchase large blocks of houses suited for conversion into dwellings, and pieces of land on which to build. There need be no great hardship inflicted in these operations. The number of inhabitants to be removed by any one operation might be limited to 1,000 and according to the accommodation that could be provided for the families turned out. That was the one practical way of getting over the difficulty. They had in the town of Dundee powers just now to expend £130,000 in widening and improving their streets, and in rooting out the places which had been described as the houses of disease and crime. He believed that anywhere where they carried out such improvements, if they did it economically and on a good plan, the money expended would be nearly recouped in the prices realized for the properties when they were sold. If
 1980
 MR. J. G. HUBBARD  said, the question of providing suitable and healthy dwellings for the poor was in certain respects even more important than the question of providing them with education. Education, properly speaking, began at home; but it was utterly hopeless to expect anything good being achieved in such a direction as long as the poorer classes were so wretchedly and inadequately housed. All the instruction that could be given in the most palatially built schools would be utterly valueless, as far as raising the morals of the people was concerned, as long as they were crowded into close and incommodious dwellings, where even the sense of decency could not be preserved; and he felt sure the Government would give a favourable consideration to the matter. To procure sites for proper dwellings it was necessary to destroy nests of disease and immorality: but the more dilapidated and wretched those buildings were the greater was the difficulty of acquiring them on reasonable terms. The reason for this was that the landlord crammed human beings into them in a way impracticable in decent houses and intolerable with decent people, and if, as in the case mentioned by the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth), the number of occupants was five times the proper number, the rent was also five to one, so that though the sum per head was very small the total was large. As to leaving the necessary provision of dwellings for the poor to the competition of capital, they must first remove the obstacles which precluded the action of competition and the application of capital. They must provide a legal power of acquiring sites whereon to build. When the State removed the obstacles, competition and capital would easily profit by the opportunity then open to them. Nothing short of a severe despotism would meet these cases; and instead of allowing men to profit by the misery, disease, and numbers of their unfortunate fellow creatures, and to found claims on the experience of their past misdeeds, he would allow them only compensation proportionate to the nature of the property. He trusted that the discussion would induce the Government to take up the subject introduced with so much ability by the hon. Member for
 1979
 SIR. MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : It was impossible to listen without respect and attention to the arguments of the hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. R. Smyth) in support of a Motion which has been backed by no small amount of popular opinion among those who, acting from motives of philanthropy, are endeavouring to promote the cause of temperance in Ireland. I fear, however, that in the Motion before the House we only have another example of how impracticable these ideas sometimes are, for if this proposal were to be put into practice in Ireland, I believe it would be found utterly inefficient to secure the objects in view—that it would create evils far worse than those which at present exist, and that it would be the cause of a very great amount of inconvenience and discomfort to a very large proportion of the population. I think it is to be regretted that we have the proposal of the hon. Member for Londonderry put before us in the inconvenient shape of a Motion on going into Committee of Supply rather than in that of a Bill. It is, as it now stands, an abstract Motion. The hon. Member has not been able to show the House in what way he would carry it out, and I should be out of order in referring to the provisions of a Bill upon the same subject which he has introduced, and has very lately withdrawn. I certainly wish that instead of proposing a mere Rosolution the hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to find a day, which surely might have been possible at this period of the Session, on which he might have brought his scheme before the House in a proper shape. I will now lay before the House, as shortly as possible, the arguments which appear to be conclusive against the acceptance of the Motion. As far as I could gather from
 2013 2014 2015 s 2016 2017 2018
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that on Monday next he would lay on the Table the clauses affecting the licensing system in Ireland intended for insertion in the Intoxicating Liquors Bill. He, however, feared it would not be in his power to afford the same time to the Irish people for considering them as the English people had had for considering the Bill of his right hon. Friend; but then one of the most important proposals in the Bill of his right hon. Friend was not intended to apply to Ireland—that which related to
 1928
 MR. SMOLLETT  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, with reference to the Question put to that Department on the 22nd February 1872, whether the instalments due to the Government of India by the Madras Irrigation Company in repayment of debentures have been regularly made; and, if so, from what sources these payments are met, from money borrowed or from profits accruing from irrigation or canal dues; and, whether any negotiations are pending for the transfer of the entire works to the India Government, and upon what terms?
 MR. CALLAN : It was wholly unintentional on my part to appear to include the name of the hon. Member for Eos-common. I have the greatest respect for that hon. Gentleman, and would not like to impute anything of the kind to him.
 MR. CALLAN : I rise to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Londonderry, and I wish to state very distinctly that I am not acting as an advocate of the licensed victuallers, nor because I am in favour of the unrestricted, and much less the indiscriminate, sale of intoxicating liquors in Ireland on Sundays. I oppose the Motion, because I dislike all Motions tending to such compulsory prohibitive legislation, and also because the Motion, if carried, will do more to promote illicit drinking in "shebeen houses"—an Irish name for whisky shops of the lowest order—than anything
 2003 2004 2005 2006
 MR. O'GORMAN : After the admirable speech which has been pronounced by the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland, I must say that the wind is completely taken out of my sails. I oppose this Resolution absolutely, in the most downright way, and for this reason, that it is nothing more nor less—if, for instance, a Bill to its effect were passed—than the perpetuating of that which has been for many centuries the bane of Ireland—namely,
 2021 Laughter pari passu 2022
 MR. CONOLLY : I regret very much, Sir, that the Government have chosen to oppose this most reasonable request: because it places me and other most faithful friends of the Government in a most difficult position, as we have to choose between being unfaithful to our Leaders or unfaithful to our constituents. Now, that is a very awkward position to be placed in. If I have not any choice—if I am driven into that position by the action of the Government, I have no hesitation in the line which I shall adopt; I shall be true to my constituents. But I am not satisfied with the line the Government have taken in this matter upon the argument which we have heard. The right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant has addressed himself with great care to the question, but with all his care he has shown he was advocating a very bad ease. I will with great brevity, considering the late hour, point out where the right hon. Gentleman seems
 2020
 MR. EARP  called attention to the difficulty of obtaining land for the purposes contemplated by the Rosolution. The town he represented (Newark on Trent) was surrounded by entailed estates, and it was impossible to extend it in any direction. He would suggest that when the Home Secretary brought in the measure on this subject promised by the Chancellor of the Exchequer it would be well to insert a provision in it for obtaining possession of land and extending the boundaries of towns. Without some such provision, the suggestion of the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth) would be futile. It was time that the Government should deal with this important question, and once for all make some decent provision for the accommodation of the labouring
 1978
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that the object of the Motion which his hon. Friend (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth) had supported with so much ability was to call upon Government to give their attention to that very important question, and to see whether they could not devise some means for remedying a great and admitted evil. He thought his hon. Friend had made out a case for legislative action. The hon. Gentleman had prudently not sketched out any plan, it being clear that the Members of the Go-
 1973
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  expressed his satisfaction that a subject in which he had long taken a deep interest had been treated by both sides of the House in the spirit evinced during the debate. It was now some years since his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke), his hon. Friend the Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird), in conjunction with himself, had brought in a 15ill having for its object the improvement of the dwellings of the poor, and he believed that their efforts to carry that Bill would have been fruitless had it not been for the unsleeping sympathy, the untiring aid, and the true succour rendered them from first to last by the right hon. Gentleman who was now at the head of the Government. When others stood aloof, and were indifferent, they never found the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire wanting in sympathy; and when he filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had felt it his duty to communicate with the promoters of the Bill to inquire what portion of the charge would require to be advanced on loan by the Treasury if the Bill were carried in its integrity. He heartily thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the great interest he had taken in the subject in the name of those who, without such interest, were indeed helpless and hopeless. Now, that the right hon. Gentleman was in power, he adjured him by all that he valued in his great fame to take up and carry to maturity the work that he (Mr. Torrens) and his hon. Friends had, in 1866, induced that House unanimously to sanction. So lucrative was the property in the worst slums of London, that it could only be dealt with by the power of the Government. He was bound to say a word on behalf of a class who had, he thought, been somewhat harshly spoken of—he meant the middle-class holders of tumble-down property in large towns. It was not owing to their combination that the best clauses of the Bill had been lost. It was by that of noble and wealthy slum owners, who ought to be ashamed of the course which they adopted in preventing the improvements which were so much needed. There happened to be at the time in the other House of Parliament a man of matchless adroitness in the use of words and in legislative artifice, a man possessed of cu-
 1982 d 1983
 MR. R. SMYTH , in rising to call the attention of the House to the present state of the Law and of public opinion in Ireland with respect to the sale of Intoxicating Liquors on Sunday; and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the Law which prohibits the sale of Intoxicating Liquors on Sunday in Scotland ought to be extended to Ireland," 1992 1993 1994 1995 "The closing of public-houses on Sundays in this diocese dates from June, 1857. It has been since that time faithfully observed; and the seenes of drunkenness and disorder which were in former times but too frequent, have altogether disappeared." "The experiment we have made in this diocese, put to the test of a 12 years' trial, has, thank God, realized my most sanguine expectations. Does it not, moreover, justify my strong conviction of the practicability of applying—and of the great gain to the cause of public morality that must arise from applying—a similar law for closing public-houses on Sundays to the whole kingdom: To be successful, however, in the large towns, it must be the law of the land, with or without the law of the Church. Unaided by the State, the law of any Church forbidding the sale of spirituous liquors on Sundays would not be observed, could not be successfully enforced in the larger towns." "The closing of public-houses does not in any possible way contribute to illicit sale, as unlicensed houses are unknown amongst us. Any person with an accurate knowledge of the country knows that many of the deeds of daring and violence which have occasionally disgraced our people were concocted and matured in public-houses not able for Sunday traffic. The Sabbath being a day of rest, the young and unwary assemble in the haunts of the idler, the plotter, and the drunkard. Here it is that wicked and designing men ply their victims with drink, and then engage them in societies alike subversive to order and religion. Close the public-houses, and you deprive all those parties of a legalized rendezvous. Their daily toil or necessary avocations will prevent their meeting on week days." 1996 "Anything I can do to assist you in your truly praiseworthy endeavours to have public-houses closed on Sunday I shall do most cheerfully. I hardly know of any measure that would prove a source of greater and more lasting blessing to religion and society. The present condition of things, the fearful evils resulting from Sunday drinking, are a disgrace to Christian civilization, and no exertion should be, omitted to remedy this state of things. Closing of public-houses on Sundays and holidays seems to be the most effectual available remedy." "Drunkenness, the source of nearly all the crimes committed in this country, and the occasion of temporal and eternal perdition to thousands of our fellow-creatures, is admittedly on the increase here and elsewhere. Hence, I cannot but wish success to the efforts of those benevolent gentlemen who are endeavouring to stop the growth of so hideous and degrading a vice by inducing Parliament to pass a law prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors on Sundays. A measure of this kind seems well calculated to prevent the desecration of a day which should be specially devoted to the worship of God and the sanctification of our souls." 1997 Laughter cheers. Ironical cheers. Dissent. 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
 MR. GOURLEY  said, he regarded the Motion of the hon. Member for Hastings as one of an exceedingly modest character, and one well deserving the best consideration of the House and the Government; but the great obstacle he saw in the way of giving practical effect to any measure in the desired direction was the multiplicity of governing bodies which existed in and about the metropolis. In answer to a remark of the hon. Member in reference to the borough which he (Mr. Gourley) represented (Sunderland), he wished to point out that whatever might have been the unhealthy condition of that town before 1865, since that year its local authorities had expended over £100,000 in sanitary improvements, the effect of which was that the death-rate in Sunderland had been greatly reduced, and would now bear favourable comparison with that of any other town in the Kingdom.
 ALDERMAN SIR JAMES LAWRENCE  said, there was one subject which the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth) had not touched upon—namely, the influence of what he would term "vicious legislation" with respect to the dwellings of the working classes. At the time when the window tax was imposed, the effect of the tax was to cause a very large number of windows to be closed up in order to lighten the burden of
 1974 d s s d
 MR. GOLDSMID , who had a similar Notice of Motion on the Paper, in seconding the Amendment said, that early that morning they were discussing a Bill on the same subject, but of a totally different character, and now they had a measure before them which his hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle must know would be totally impracticable if it was ever put into operation. He (Mr. Goldsmid) had a great personal regard for his hon. Friend. He knew that no one in that House was
 13 14 The Boston Advertiser "During the past year the State constables have prosecuted about 700, or about one in five,
 15 The Boston Advertiser "The Commissioners know that they cannot rely upon the machinery of Courts to convict and imprison a man of high social position under this statute—something gives way." "I am now fully convinced that the Prohibitory Law, as it now stands on the Statute Books, is detrimental to the cause of temperance, and that it leads to corruption and inefficiency." 16 "Your pretended fear lest error should step in is like the man who would keep all the wine out of the country lest men should be drunk. It will be found an unjust and unwise jealousie to deny a man the liberty he hath by nature, upon a supposition he may abuse it; when he doth abuse it, judge." "I wish I could vote in accordance with the purport of the Resolution; but I cannot do so, for reasons which I have more than once explained to my friends in Birmingham. I am as anxious to promote the cause of temperance as any man who supported that resolution; but I must endeavour to promote it by means which are consistent with reason, with constitutional practice, with a consideration for the just rights of those concerned, engaged in a legal traffic, and with my own view of what is likely to be effective towards the end we seek. I see great good in this end which your friends profess to seek—the lessening of the great evil of intemperance. But I think I observe a remarkable absence of wisdom in the chief measure they
 17 18
 MR. SCOURFIELD  contended that-private action of individuals ought not to be considered by Parliament. He objected to creating small Parliaments throughout the length and breadth of the country, and to making two-thirds of the inhabitants of parishes the arbiters and judges over the requirements of the remaining one-third. If the penalties directed against drunkenness were not severe enough, let them be made more severe and be properly enforced; but they ought to be careful how they interfered with the freedom of the mass of temperate people, under the plea of putting down drunkenness. If they were to legislate against everything which in any way conduced to intemperance, they must legislate against the sale of red herrings and other provocatives of thirst. He did not regard the Petitions presented in respect to that Bill as any real index of public feeling on the subject, because it was only those persons who wished the existing state of things to be changed who agitated and petitioned, while the far greater number who were perfectly content remained quiet. It was dangerous for any Government to make itself disagreeable to the country by repressive legislation, which should follow and not lead public opinion. Comparatively few people might be able to understand difficult questions of policy, but every man knew when he was annoyed; and when politicians annoyed him by their irritating legislation he was apt to resent it, perhaps at a very inconvenient time. Viewing that Bill as an attempt to fly in the face of human nature, he must, though sympathizing with the motives of its advocates, give it his decided opposition.
 MR. GOLDSMID : I desire to correct the hon. Baronet. What I said was, that no man of distinction or eminence in this House has ever supported the Bill except the hon. Baronet himself.
 MR. GOLDSMID : I beg pardon. I never said a word about what the hon. Baronet eats or drinks. What I said was that I did not wish to invade the privacies of domestic life; but I had been informed by a friend of his that anyone who had the good fortune to go into his hospitable home would also have the good fortune to get everything good in the shape of eating and drinking.
 MR. SULLIVAN : There never was yet a reformer who was not told that he had begun at the wrong end. If he be an educationalist, he is told to trust to religious influences. If he attempt to deal with religious difficulties, he is told to provide the people with Sabbath recreation. If he attempt to provide Sabbath recreation, he is abjured to provide better homes. If he endeavour to provide better homes, he is told that if drink enters there all efforts are vain. It seems to me that most of this discussion on the part of hon. Gentlemen who have spoken against the Bill has been wide of the mark, and that hon. Members who have spoken against the Bill are in the most illogical position. I have not heard one who has manfully faced
 48 49
 MR. SULLIVAN : I did not mean to say that the hon. Gentleman had done so—["Oh!"]—and I abide by what I did say. If the hon. Member proposes a penal law of this kind forbidding alcoholic drinks upon any premises, that, I maintain, involves an invasion of the do-
 50 51 52 53 s d d
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that after the long debate they had had upon the question he hoped that the House was now prepared to go to a division. He should himself not interpose to prevent that division for more than a few minutes. He also ventured to hope that when the question had been decided, as he trusted it soon would be decided, by the vote of the House, it would be regarded as settled, at all events for the remainder of that Parliament. He trusted it would be permitted to go to rest and that they would not have a question of that sort, which it was perfectly hopeless to expect to pass into a law, brought forward Session after Session after it had been thoroughly discussed and settled at the beginning of the Parliament, as he hoped and trusted it would be settled that afternoon. He would meet the hon. Member who introduced the Bill on his own grounds. The hon. Baronet recommended the Bill on two grounds, one because it was permissive, the other because it was prohibitory. These were the two great grounds on which he (Mr. Cross) entirely objected to the measure. He objected to it
 57 58
 MR. O'LEARY , in opposing the second reading of the Bill said, the hon. Member for Louth had said that no public-houses were allowed in Merrion
 56 corona
 MR. PELL , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, it was in the main a declaratory Bill, and referred only to the pursuit or trespass on land for rabbits during the day time, and did not at all meddle with night poaching. The Amendment he proposed would bestow as severe a punishment on the poacher as any awarded by the old law, and the owner of cultivated lands would be at least in as good a position as he was before. There was nothing in the Bill to prevent the setting aside of grounds suitable for the breeding of these creatures if it was the desire of the owner; and if he did so, he would receive a protection of a higher order, accompanied with penalties for breach of the law of a more serious character than any contained in the Game Laws proper, and those laws he let alone. He had introduced this Bill as an honest endeavour to get rid of a difficult question, and if it were carried it would at once dispose of that question. It would take the rabbits out of the Game Laws, create a law of trespass to protect the
 62 s s s
 MR. MACDONALD : I beg to correct the hon. Gentleman. I did not wish to apply my remarks to the working man, but to the entire community, and have not spoken exceptionally of the working man.
 MR. MACDONALD  said, he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), that in too many instances, drunkenness was not looked upon by working men with that detestation that it should be; but he was happy to tell the House that owing to the influences of education, a very great change had come over the feelings and habits of a large portion of the working men of the country during the last 15 or 20 years. He believed the hon. and learned Member had not had an opportunity of mingling with those men as he (Mr. Macdonald) had had, and therefore that it was not his intention to say anything against the men. What he had stated arose from a want of knowledge of the true facts. He (Mr. Macdonald) had no hesitation in saying that a large proportion of the working men of this country looked upon the crime of drunkenness with quite as much distaste as hon. Members within the walls of that House did. And now as regarded the Bill itself. If it proposed to destroy the use of intoxicating liquors altogether, or to prohibit them in such a way that it would be almost impossible for drinkers to reach them, he should hesitate very strongly before he opposed such a measure, considering the amount of misery, crime, and poverty which was produced by intoxicating liquors. But the Bill did nothing of the kind. It did not attempt to destroy the drinking customs of the people, but it simply changed them from one place to another. If the Bill passed, the effect would be to drive public-houses and spirit shops from one district into another, and he demurred to the right of one portion of the community to drive an evil from their own midst into the midst of another portion of the community. They had seen that exemplified in what had occurred in Scotland. In that country there was a law which prohibited the sale of strong drinks on Sundays, unless in the hotels. The result of that law was, that persons who desired to have strong drink travelled considerable distances to hotels,
 47
 MR. A. MILLS  said, he could corroborate the statements which had been made as to the utter futility of the Maine Liquor Law in America. It was notorious that in the hotels of the United States, people might obtain as much liquor as they desired; and in the shop windows they saw mysterious labels, bearing the word "chymicals," which meant that they might get drunk on the premises if they pleased. In fact, the prohibitive system, call it by what name they chose, had broken down in America, in Sweden, and wherever else it had been tried. He had little faith in any legislation for the repression of drunkenness. The Legislature ought to maintain order; but it would go entirely beyond its duty, if it attempted repressive legislation of the character proposed in the Bill. In checking intemperance, he wished them God speed; but any endeavour to do so by penal laws would be going against the wish of the thoughtful portion of the community. The Legislature had treated the traffic in intoxicating liquors as a monopoly, and professed to regulate it, and so far as that principle had been carried out it had been done wisely. But any proposal to go beyond that—any proposal to regulate the appetite of the people as to the quantity of intoxicating liquor they should consume, would not be tolerated, and would only lead to the increase of the very vice they desired to put down. He denied that the present Parliament had been returned on an understanding that something would be done on behalf of the licensed victuallers; all the agitation that had taken place had resulted from the proposals of the hon. Member for Carlisle and the unwise Bill introduced by the late Government in 1871. That Bill sought to place the licensed victuallers—honourable men, engaged in an honourable calling—under a ban, and to "disestablish" them in 10 years; but the present Bill would disestablish them all at once. What would be thought of a Bill which aimed at disestablishing all the solicitors, or all the pawnbrokers in the country, whose callings some people held to be mischievous. The hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle had
 22 "It would be a prosperous day in the history of the United Kingdom, when the organization and enthusiasm of the prohibition party should he directed from the fruitless effort of trying to injure a trade that was flourishing through the demoralization of the people, and were, instead, applied with equal force and influence, in demanding from Parliament such measures for improving the condition of the people as would supply them with strength to resist temptation."
 MR. D. DAVIES : I shall not go outside my own experience in what I have to say; but I have the advantage of knowing as much about the working classes as any hon. Member in this House. I feel the difficulty which the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Wheelhouse) put us in in interfering with this question, but
 54 s s 55 d d
 DR. C. CAMERON  said, it seemed to him that the House and the supporters of the measure had derived great advantage from the course which the debate had taken, because the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Goldsmid) had, to a great extent, answered the speech of the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Wheel-
 19 20 21
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I wish in a very few words to express a very strong-opinion. This Bill I look on as a wonderful effort on the part of a very small section of the community, who have created in my mind a great variety
 23 24 25
 MR. GRANTHAM  said, he had great pleasure in thanking the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle for the able and interesting speech which he had just delivered. If, however, the hon. Gentleman, and those who acted with him, intended to rely on the effect of that speech for the votes of new Members, he (Mr. Grantham) was afraid that he was trusting to a broken reed, for although the speech was as able and as interesting as any that had been delivered in that House during the present Session, there was scarcely one argument in it which would induce anyone who came fresh to the question to support the second reading of the Bill. In his speech, the hon. Baronet had told them many things which were true, and many things which were new; but unfortunately those which were true were not new, and, certainly, many of those that were new were not true. He had told them that there was a great deal of drunkenness in the country, and that drunkenness was a vice and a crime; and he (Mr. Grantham), so far, quite agreed with him. But surely there were other things which were vices and crimes besides drunkenness, with regard to which no such measure as was now proposed had been adopted, or even suggested. Years ago, there was a great
 43 44 45 eau de vie 46
 MR. M'COMBIE : I beg to move the rejection of the Bill. As I have been sent to this House to speak for the tenant-farmers, I hope the House will allow me to say a few words as to this Bill. Speaking for them, I must say that this is the most extraordinary, the most childish, the most insignificant, the most insulting to tenant-farmers of any Bill that has ever been introduced to this House. The former Government left our grievances as they found them, and if this is a specimen of what we may expect from the other side of the House, we will undergo the same fate by the present Government. The tenant-farmers have never been represented in this House, nor will they be ever represented so long as they send the sons of Dukes, the sons of Lords, and large landed proprietors who wish to keep the power in their own hands, and have represented their own interests and not the interests of the tenant-farmers. If this should be denied, will any hon. Member point out any measure that has passed this House but what has been for the advantage of the proprietor, and not for the advantage of the tenant? I do not object to the sons of Dukes and Lords or large landed proprietors sitting in this House, if they would represent
 63 64
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  in rising to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, that had he consulted his own inclination he should have followed the example of the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle, who submitted the Motion for second reading without explanation or introduc-
 3 scintilla 4 5 6 7 8 "Whereas the common sale of intoxicating liquors is a fruitful source of crime, immorality, pauperism, disease, insanity, and premature death, whereby not only the individuals who give way to drinking habits are plunged into misery, but grievous wrong is done to the persons and property of Her Majesty's subjects at large, and the public rates and taxes are greatly augmented; and whereas it is right and expedient to confer upon the ratepayers of cities, boroughs, parishes, and townships the power to prohibit such common sale as aforesaid. Be it therefore enacted," &c. delirium tremens 9 "At any time from and after the passing of this Act it shall he lawful for or more ratepayers residing in any municipal borough or parish, by notice in writing under their hands, to require the mayor of such municipal borough, or the overseers of the poor of such parish, of the ratepayers of such borough or parish respectively, as to the propriety of bringing into operation therein the provisions of this Act," ipso facto 10 11 "From and after the time limited for the commencement of this Act in any borough or parish, no licence whatever shall he granted or renewed for the sale of any alcoholic liquor within such borough or parish; and any person selling or disposing of such alcoholic liquor within such borough or parish shall be dealt with as selling without a licence, and shall be subject to all the penalties provided for such offence under any Act or Acts of Parliament which may be in force at the time of the adoption of this Act." 12 locus standi
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he also opposed the Bill, because it could not be accepted by the tenant-farmers of Scotland. They had long complained of their grievances, and as a Liberal he deeply regretted that the late Government did not attempt to deal with them. He was anxious to see the game grievance which the tenant-farmers of Scotland had so long, so earnestly, and with such fairness tried to remove, set at rest. It created ill-will between those who ought to be on friendly terms. It caused heart-burnings to all wealthy landlords selling game reared on the crops of farmers. To-morrow
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the House, that he had received from Mr. Justice Mellor, one of the Judges on the Rota for the Trial of Election Petitions in England, a Report relating to the Election for the County of Durham (Southern Division). 2
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  moved the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON : Well, we are not discussing private houses; we are discussing public-houses. I do not not advocate the Bill on behalf of teetotalers. They are not perfect any more than other people. I know a teetotaler who keeps a public-house, and he keeps it very badly too. I have heard also of the captain of a ship who found that a great number of the men on board got drunk, and, on making inquiry, he found further that there were a lot of teetotalers in the ship, who sold their grog to the other men. Thereupon the captain changed his system. He had been flogging the drunken men for a good while; but when he made this discovery, he turned round and flogged the teetotalers. Now, Sir, I do not think I am one to toady the working man. All my life I have tried to steer clear of that most disgusting offence. I think the working man is just as full of fault and folly in his life as anyone else, and so I have told him at public meetings; but I do not think he is used very well in this House on all occasions. He is very often treated as the Uriah the Hittite of politics. He is put into the front rank and made to do all the fighting, and he gets very little reward. What I ask for him now is, only that you will let him alone—that you will not insist upon having in his midst these places which do him injury. You talk about this Bill being unconstitutional, though we have not had much of that argument to-day; but if it be unconstitutional in this country to benefit the poor, how is it in many of our colonies
 40 bona fide 41 42
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON : The hon. and learned Member who has just spoken has declared that he has the most profound contempt for the intelligence of those who support this Bill. Therefore, Sir, I shall not take any trouble in answering the objections of the hon. Gentleman, for I am sure that if such are his feelings, he would not listen to anything I might have to say. But I believe that the House will listen to my arguments. It always has done so on former occasions, and I am glad that on this, the custom which distinguishes the Derby day has not been adopted by the House, and that we have not adjourned for the Ascot races in the same way as we did for the Derby a short time ago, or I should have been prevented from bringing the measure forward this Session. It would appear from the state of the front Ministerial Bench, that the great bulk of Her Majesty's Ministers are at the races, and I think that I was quite right in waiting for two or three hours before delivering my speech, as my doing so, has procured for me the honour of seeing at least two right hon. Gentlemen belonging to the Government come down here and take their places who have apparently denied themselves that pleasure in their desire to hear what I have to say. I must explain the Bill to the House, because, although I have introduced it and explained it two or three times before, it was in the old House of Commons, and as there are in the present House no fewer than 240 Members who have not yet gone through the painful operation of hearing me explain the provisions of the Bill, I feel sure that I shall have the same kind attention from them as I have always had from the old Members. I am the more confident in saying this because there has been no Election of Parliament in our days during which beer has been so much the subject of conversation—I may add of consumption—as it was during the last Election. Therefore, we are all very much in-
 26 27 The Times The Times The Globe "The evil [during the Whitsuntide holidays] was simply scandalous. The return of parties from the country was attended by noise and confusion that disturbed peaceful people in all parts of London….It does not speak well for this country that so many people cannot en-
 28 29 The Saturday Review 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON : Well, I will now give the House a fact which will interest them, and which I know to be true, it having been corroborated by my hon. Friend the Member for Morpeth (Mr. Burt.) There was a village called Seghill, in the north, near New-castle-on-Tyne, where drinking prevailed. Two public-houses were in that village, and they belonged to certain colliery proprietors, who, being benevolent men, felt a wish to do away with them; but they were also anxious to do nothing that could be considered tyrannical, unjust, unfair, or unpleasant to the pitmen. So they put it to those pitmen whether they would have the houses removed or not. The pitmen voted with alacrity, and decided by an immense majority, including the votes of the drunken people, that the public-houses should be removed. It would have been rather hard on a place like that that the public-houses should have been allowed to ruin the neighbourhood against the wish of the men themselves. That is one slight detail; but there is another
 38 The Times 39
 ADMIRAL EGERTON  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether any communications have passed between the Admiralty and Sir Joseph Whitworth, relative to the trial of two pieces of ordnance lately constructed by him, and whether it is intended to carry out any experiments therewith?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Yes, Sir, the hon. Member for Swansea was good enough to show me some correspondence, which I have no doubt is accurate, and from which it appears that Lord Aylesford has made an apology for his indiscretion, and that he has paid something to the railway officials with whom he came into collision; but it is not on account of his having made an apology that I think it necessary to take any further steps in connection with the military authorities.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he had made inquiries into the case referred to by the hon. Member, and found that the Question treated a great many things as facts which were not so. The communication which he had re-
 72
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, my attention has been called by the Question put to me by the gallant General to the Warrant to which he has referred. Up to 1860 the price of Cavalry Commissions was much higher than that of Infantry Commissions, but it was then equalized by Mr. Sidney Herbert. The rates of pay were also higher than in the Infantry. When Mr. Herbert equalized the price of Army Commissions, he proposed, and had the assent of the Horse Guards to the propositions,
 75
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : No; I have never said, that I am aware of, that "urgent representations" had been made to me to grant this Commission. I have said many representations have been made to me, and so they have. I have received several deputations in regard to the Bill of the hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Anstruther), and a great number of gentlemen who have come upon that matter have asked the Government to issue a Royal Commission on this question; but I have never given any opinion upon it, nor have I laid the matter before the Government.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) had urged that it would obviate many difficulties if they closed every public-house outside of the metropolis at 11. That no doubt, would be a simple mode of cutting the Gordian Knot, and when he himself first took up that subject he had put that proposal in the Bill. But almost every Member on both sides of the House declared that it was a proposal which certainly could not be entertained, and it was only in deference to what he found to be the general feeling of the House that he was induced to withdraw what he individually still thought would be the proper way of solving that question, although he now knew it was impracticable. When he first made that proposal, he naturally expected to be backed up in it by the high authority of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who now spoke so strongly in its favour; but unfortunately the right hon. Gentleman had reserved his advocacy of it until it was, he feared, too late. In defining a populous place it was his desire to secure the 11 o'clock hour to all these places which were practically, if not legally, towns; and he regretted the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Oxford (Sir William Harcourt) had not, instead of occupying the time of the House with pointing out the difficulties in the way of the enactment, shown them some means of escaping from them. If he had taken that course the time of the House would have been more profitably employed. The hon. and learned Gentleman told them that the Government should accept
 81
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  could not say that any such difficulty in understanding the meaning of the Amendment had occurred to his mind, though possibly there might be some difficulty in understanding what was the meaning of the term "populous place." The Amendment simply proposed to substitute in lieu of the word "parish" the term "populous place," and populous place was defined in the definition clause to mean any place which, by reason of the number or density of its inhabitants, the licensing justices might determine to be a populous place. There might be some difficulty in the definition; but the Government could hardly fix on a word to describe what was a populous place, and as some one must define it, the magistrates had been fixed upon by the Government as the parties most likely to know the wants of their districts, and so to make the definition which would give most satisfaction. There were precedents for the use of the phrase "populous place." It occurred in many Scotch Acts, and had not occasioned any difficulty. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) had complained that there was nothing in the Act providing the means of ascertaining the population. That was quite true. The last Census would be useless for the purpose. But the number of the population must be ascertained in this case as it had been ascertained in other cases where such a term was used in other Bills.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTEUTHER  said, he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General had not thrown much light upon the point under discussion. The contention of these who objected to the Amendment was that it might mean anything, seeing it was not defined in the definition clause. In his Bill "populous places"
 85
 MR. SCOURFIELD  supported the Amendment, and cited Dover as one of many towns where the arrival of late trains rendered it necessary that the public-houses should be open till 11.30 If the Homo Secretary granted the Amendment, he would confer a great advantage on the public.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he was sorry he could not possibly accept the Amendment. To do so would be to re-open all that the House had been deciding. With regard to passengers arriving at the termini of railways, if they were  bonâ fide
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the Amendment was merely a verbal one. The justices had the power to say what the exact time within certain limits should be, and the Amendment only altered the normal hour within which the houses could not be opened. Half-past 12 seemed to be the time that was most generally convenient.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved to insert, in Clause 2, page 2, line 5, after "or," the words "the metropolitan police district or." In line 6, to leave out "parish," and insert "populous place."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved in line 14, to leave out "seven" and insert "six." There was, he said, considerable discussion the other night as to whether the opening hour on Sunday evening should be 7, 6, or 5; and he then promised that this matter should be considered not only by himself, but also by Her Majesty's Government. He subsequently gave Notice that he thought the wisest course would be to restore the old hour of 6, and that was what, after full consideration, he now proposed.
 MR. W. E. FOESTER  said, he thought it could hardly be said that the right hon. Gentleman was now fulfilling his pledge in proposing this alteration. He clearly understood the right hon. Gentleman to say the other night that he had come to the conclusion that it was better to fix the hour at 7; and the pledge he gave after objections had been raised, and there was a possibility of a fresh Amendment being proposed, was that he would reconsider the subject. It seemed a rather curious thing that he should, after assenting to the word "seven," make a pledge that he would restore it to "six."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I pledged myself that the subject should be fully considered by Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the right hon. Gentleman's observations were somewhat late, and if they had been made before they might have had some weight. They ought to have been made in 1872, when the right hon. Gentleman was a Member of the Government. His memory seemed rather to have failed him for the moment. If he would loot back at the Bill introduced by the Government in the House of Lords, he would find that it was proposed in these days, doubtless after deliberate consideration, that the hour for closing should be 10 o'clock in the country. He (Mr. Cross) supposed the notion of the late Government as to the opinion and requirements of the people at that time varied considerably from what it was at the present moment. Their notion in these days was that in every town which had not a population of 10,000 inhabitants the public-houses should close at 10. All he (Mr. Cross) sought to do by the present Bill was to close public-houses at that hour in purely country villages. He thought it was rather late in the day for the right hon. Gentleman to get up and make this proposition at the present time.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  objected to the proposal, as its adoption would practically include almost every other employment. He should be glad, however, to consult with his hon. Friend in order to ascertain whether there were particular occupations which ought to be exempted besides that of harvesting.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the real fact was, that if the right hon. Gentleman would refer to the Act of 1872, he would find that precisely the same power was given as had been given in this case, and nothing more nor less. The magistrates had power under the Act of 1872 to make special exemptions. There was a notion in some parts of the country that the clause in the old Act did not apply to harvesting operations, and to remove that doubt the words were inserted.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he could not agree to the Amendment, which would have the effect of unduly extending the Act of 1872.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, it would be quite impossible to accept the Amendment. The question had been already decided on Clause 2. He entirely differed from his hon. Friend as to the advisability of re-opening at 5 o'clock on Sunday evenings.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the clause was misunderstood by his hon. Friend. It was one to make the public-houses close at a time which would avoid their clashing with the afternoon service
 95
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he must oppose the Amendment, because it was entirely at variance with the clauses of the Bill already, after long discussion, agreed to by the House.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved, in page 3, lines 25 and 26, to leave out, "or opening them at a later hour in the morning than usual," the effect of which would be that any publican might, on application, obtain the privilege of opening an hour earlier in the morning on condition of closing an hour earlier in the evening.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the House had already decided not to entertain a proposition of this kind sub-
 99
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that was only in the metropolis, and under exceptional circumstances.
 MR. STAVELEY HILL  moved, in page 4, line 21, after "premises" to insert "in contravention of this Act."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the words which it was proposed to omit had been inserted in the clause with the view to enable the publican to refuse to serve persons who lived in his neighbourhood with refreshments on the plea that they were  bonâ fide
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that in such a case the man would be taken to have "lodged."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  was anxious to make the Bill as easily workable as
 103
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he was happy to be able to accede to the introduction of these words, which were simply meant to correct an error in the drawing of the Bill. Under the Act of 1872 there were certain offences which might be recorded on the licence, and it was never intended to impose severer penalties upon publicans by this Bill than existed under the Act of 1872.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that the object of the Government was to leave the law as regarded the powers of the constable to enter public-houses in the way it was before the passing of the Act of 1872.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : He would have power to enter them in the execution of his duty, and for the purpose of preventing or detecting crime; but the Bill would throw on him the responsibility of showing that he entered them with this view.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he believed that under the old Beer House Act the constable had the power to enter all houses licensed for the sale of beer, whether beer-houses or public-houses. This was the state of the law until the passing of the Act of 1872. Under that Act the constable might enter at all times and examine every room in a licensed house and search for all intoxicating liquors stored therein. He believed that these words were put into the Act to enable a constable to search for adulterated liquor. Now they had struck out the adulteration clauses in the Bill, and therefore they had done away with the object which they had in view in giving power to the constable to go into the several apartments of a licensed house. The present Bill restored to the police the simple power to enter upon the premises to prevent any violation of the Act, and thus threw upon the police the responsibility. The policeman would have the right to enter in the positive execution of his duty, and it might be necessary for him to do so in case of a riot, but he would be responsible if he exceeded his duty. He was quite aware of the great difficulty of washing out the colour put on the old law by the Act of 1872, and he should be glad to consider any Amendment which the right hon. Gentleman might have to offer; only reminding him, however, that the matter had been very carefully considered by some able lawyers, and the clause drawn accordingly.
 MR. R. H. PAGET  contended that the alteration of the Act of 1872 would be simply reverting to what the law was previously, and that the Government in that were really meeting the wishes of the country.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  denied emphatically that there had been any desire whatever to interfere with the liberty of the subject in proposing the clause now sought to be modified. It would be impossible to carry out the Amendment without considerably enlarging the privileges already conceded to the publicans. Great pains had been taken to make "white" appear "black." All that the Government desired to do was to leave it to the constable in such a way as not to interfere with the liberty of the subject. They wished to restore the law precisely to the state in which it was before the Act of 1872. Before that Act was passed the Excise had power to search in any part of the premises for adulterated liquor. The Act of 1872 gave the constables certain powers of the same kind, and these powers were used in some instances oppressively. But under the law as it existed before 1872 there was no oppression, nor were there any complaints on the part of the licensed victuallers, and what the Government wished now was, as he had said, simply to restore the law to the state in which it was before 1872. If a constable should hereafter violate the privacy of a publican he would suffer for it, and the publican would not.
 MR. STAVELEY HILL  said, he hoped the Home Secretary would receive the Amendment, in which he entirely coincided, or if it were out of time, that he would assure the House that the provision would be made part of the Bill in "another place."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  acquiesced in the spirit of the Amendment, which, however, was one-sided, inasmuch as it referred only to renewals, and not to either grants or transfers. If it were withdrawn now, he should take care that the attention of these who might have charge of the Bill in "another place" should be called to its importance.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, it was perfectly true that the population of West Ham was part of the population of London, and at first he thought the district ought to be included within the Metropolitan area. He openly said so in the House, and he quite expected he should have an expression of opinion from the inhabitants to that effect. But to his surprise almost the first deputation which he received on his return to town after the Whitsuntide holidays was one from West Ham, begging and imploring him not to do what he had intended. That deputation consisted of magistrates, clergymen, and others. It was not composed of persons who objected to the sale of liquors, not teetotalers, but apparently a deputation of influential and highly respectable persons. [ Laughter lonâ fide 114
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved in page 11, line 4, after "one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two," to insert—
 "And containing two thousand five hundred inhabitants or more; and any collection or continuous line of houses immediately adjoining a town as so defined shall, for the purpose of the provisions of this Act with respect to the closing of licensed premises, be deemed to be part of such town after it has been declared so to be by an order of the licensing justices having jurisdiction in the place where such houses are situated." 115
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  called attention to the case he mentioned the other evening, of houses on the opposite side of a river to a town, and asked whether they would be considered as belonging to and included in the town.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he had the Return of the Local Government Boards in his hand, and it was quite true that a few of the parishes contained comparatively small populations. He thought, however, there were only about a dozen with very small populations. But it was much more convenient to take a broad and general fine in this matter. He was, therefore, inclined to recommend the House to omit the words "or continous line."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  did not mean to say there were only a dozen places with less than 2,500 inhabitants, because there was, no doubt, a large number of them, but that there was that number with very small populations.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said he thought the argument of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Sir John Karslake) was perfectly conclusive. It often happened that a place was separated from a town by a a road, or a river, or a ditch, and yet was practically part of it. The case mentioned by his hon. Friend behind was, he thought, a strong one. Persons came to the town from a distance, but a heavy toll made them put up at some outlying place. For all practical purposes, however, and in common parlance, these places were parts of the town.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved, as an Amendment, the addition of words by which places situated in the vicinity of towns, and practically part of them, should be deemed to be part of them for the purposes of the Act as regarded hours of closing.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  said, that now for the first time the right hon. Gentleman was proposing to drop the
 118
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that after putting public-houses and beerhouses on the same footing, they could not all at once reduce everything to the original limit and establish a hard-and-fast line. When he put his Amendments on the Paper, they included not simply towns but also parishes, which were afterwards changed to populous places. But when they came to decide what populous places were, they found that of about some 200 districts all but about 30 would be included in that category. Therefore, it would be idle to require the magistrates to call them populous places when they already had the definition of urban sanitary districts.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he thought they had better proceed with the business of the Bill, and the questions which had nothing to do with it he was inclined to put on one side. When the right hon. Gentleman took upon himself to instruct the House, he should, at all events, try to be correct. First, he said that the Government had originally made up their minds that all places with 2,500 inhabitants should close at 11 o'clock. Now, in that the right hon. Gentleman was not correct. The right hon. Gentleman was inaccurate also in saying that the House was considering and discussing propositions different from what the Government had originally placed upon the Paper. The proposition of the Government was that 11 should be the hour in towns and populous places being urban, sanitary districts of over 2,500 inhabitants, and populous places, having no such limit. It mattered not whether the alteration expressed "towns" or "populous places." It was proposed simply to change the places from one category to the other, without making the slightest change really in the Bill. Practically, the present Amendments were the same as the Government had originally presented to the House.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would have any further alterations or Amendments he proposed placed on the Paper before the House adjourned.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he had never made any change to-day at all. ["Yesterday."] Nor did he make any change yesterday. The only change
 128
 COLONEL BRISE  moved to insert before the word "six" the words "five or." He hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would respect the numerous Petitions presented in favour of opening half-an-hour earlier in the morning. If the Home Secretary did not grant the been he asked, which would have no effect on the principle of the Bill, though it was matter of great importance in agricultural districts, he should certainly divide the House.
 COLONEL BRISE  said, he thought the publicans were entitled to consideration in these matters. 7 o'clock had been apparently accepted by the House as the hour for opening on Sunday evening, after 6 had been struck out, very much against its will.
 MR. MOORE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he will state the reasons why the townlands of Kilmanahan and Kilnamack West, distant from Clonmel Union Work-house two and a half miles, were severed from that union and added to Clogheen Union, being distant from the latter union workhouse nine and a half miles; whether there is any sufficient reason for causing the paupers to travel nine and a half miles to a workhouse where they are unknown, whilst there is one within two and a half miles; whether the Report of the Poor Law Inspector, when desired to investigate the matter, was favourable to the continued severance of these townlands or otherwise; and whe-
 77
 MR. O'NEILL  asked Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, If he will explain to the House why the Office of the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery, Ireland, should be closed for the purpose of making up accounts from the first of August till the second of November, during which time no one can receive dividends due on money lodged in this Court, while in England the office of the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery is kept open for the payment of dividends during the whole year?
 LORD FRANCIS HERVEY  said, he was the first to place upon the Paper the Amendment which the Government had adopted. He trusted the hour of 5 would not be inserted, as he believed it to be quite unnecessary. Notwithstanding the complaint of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), he did not think the Home Secretary could be charged with
 92
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  said, he objected very much to wasting the time of the House, but unfortunately it seemed to be the case that when these Licensing and Beer Bills were under discussion, the House, and perhaps the Government, got into a very hazy state. A great many changes had been made in the Bill. One day it was understood that the public-houses were to be closed at 7, on another at 6, and so great had been the changes with reference to towns and populous places, that it was almost impossible for anyone to know what he was voting for. He confessed that he had never felt greater difficulty in knowing exactly on what question he had voted, and he thought the same thing applied to all the hon. Members, for whenever there was a division there was a great rush of Members to know what they were dividing about. He thought, therefore, it would be better to adjourn this debate while they were all in good humour. If this conflict proceeded, the result would be, as had happened on other occasions of a similar kind, that they would only get slightly irritated with each other, and think to-morrow morning what fools they had all been. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had told them a short time since that some of the Members on that side of the House had voted with them; but he (Lord George Cavendish) was informed that one of the most respected county Members on the other side had voted with the Opposition. He thought they would do well to adjourn the debate, and he would, accordingly move that it be now adjourned.
 MR. HALL  moved, in page 5, line 10, to leave out "in a straight line on the Ordnance map," and insert "by the nearest public thoroughfare."
 MR. HALL  said, he did not understand this drawing of a hard-and-fast line in these matters. When the Government brought in this Bill, he believed that the people of this country, as a whole, were tolerably well satisfied with it; but in the course of the discussions that had taken place upon it, and the changes which had been made in it, the result had been to produce a general feeling of disappointment and dissatisfaction. The metropolis had powerful Representatives in that House, and to them much had been conceded; but he felt, as many others did, that even-handed justice had not been dealt out to the provinces in this respect, and that they would be left in as bad, if not a worse, position than they were at present. For his own part, he must say that if the Bill passed in its present shape, he did not look forward with much pleasure or satisfaction to his next meeting with his much-respected constituents. The Bill, instead of relaxing existing restrictions, had imposed fresh ones. It seemed to be the general opinion that some time should be allowed for clearing the premises. It was no doubt very important to consult the convenience of the police; but for that House to pass an Act which would work without constant friction, was much more important and far more consonant with the dignity of Parliament. If the hon.
 100
 MR. ALFRED MARTEN  moved to insert after "lodged" the words "or slept."
 MR. ALFEED MARTEN  moved, in Clause 2, line 14, after "three," to insert "or half-past two, according as
 90
 MR. ALFRED MARTEN  moved, in Clause 2, page 1, lines 26 and 27, to leave out "one o'clock in the afternoon" and insert "half an hour after noon." The hon. Gentleman said, that the Bill as it then stood, proposed to enact that licensed houses throughout the country should not open on Sunday until 1 o'clock in the afternoon. That hour was probably not objectionable if regarded only as the opening hour for the metropolitan district. But elsewhere the adoption of that hour would occasion great inconvenience. Out of the 890 licensing districts in England and Wales, only 42 had adopted, under the Act of 1872, the hour of 1 P.M. as the hour of the first opening on Sunday. In the remaining 848 districts, including Cambridge, which he had the honour to represent, the opening hour on Sunday was 12.30 at noon. He proposed that that hour should be preserved by the Bill, so that in towns, and generally in country places, the first hour of opening would be half-an-hour after noon. He was informed that in these places 1 o'clock was the almost universal hour for dinner on Sunday among the important and numerous class of persons for whose accommodation licensed houses existed. Religious services on Sunday morning in the chapels generally ended at noon, or shortly after noon; and in the churches the morning services were generally over by 12.30. The bakers who baked the dinners for many who were likely to require the use of licensed houses, cleared their bakehouses at 12.45. The dinner beer at present was fetched before 1 o'clock, and the dinner commenced at 1. He trusted that the Government and the House would adopt the Amendment. He did not propose to increase the hours of opening. These hours in towns and country places would, according to his Amendments, be from half-an-hour after
 86
 MR. DISRAELI : I thoroughly agree with the noble Lord that it is always desirable to conduct the affairs of this House with good humour, and I am not at all sure that we might not have conducted them with still greater good humour this evening, had we been favoured with a larger share of the company of
 127
 MR. DISRAELI : I regret that hon. Gentlemen opposite are losing their appreciation of the constitutional principle of government by majority. When I sat on these benches, of which I have had much experience, I was always ready to assert the rights of my friends; at the same time, I wished never to interfere with the legitimate course of Public Business when I felt that my opponents were supported by an unmistakable expression of opinion by these who sat behind them. Not with standing the epigrammatic conciseness with which the Motion has been made, I think, upon reflection, the hon. and learned Member for Newark (Mr. Bristowe) will see the propriety of withdrawing it. I need not
 125
 MR. DISRAELI : This is a very remarkable Motion to make at the present hour of the night. I am quite sure that if the hon. Gentleman has any charges to bring against these who are conducting this Bill he could not have a better opportunity of doing it than the present, and he has no ground whatever, in my opinion, even if his statement were correct, for concluding with the Motion he has made. But I demur to the correctness of the statement. No changes of any importance have been made in the Government proposals. ["Oh, oh!"] At least there have been none but such as might be expected to occur in the conduct of a considerable Bill like the present. I trust that the House will reflect a little upon its position, and will recognize that this hour of the night is not a time to evade difficulties, but rather to meet and solve them. This is a moment when the mind of the House is matured, and when its energies come fresh from the spring. Half-past 11, in Committee of the Whole House—for we are virtually in Committee—is, I think, a time very favourable to the progress of business; and I trust, therefore, that the House will not assent to the suggestion of the hon. Member, but will proceed with the business in hand, and try, if possible, to finish it to-night.
 MR. DISRAELI  moved that the adjournment be till 2 o'clock to-morrow.
 MR. CAWLEY  moved, in page 4, line 19, after "allows," to insert "any person to remain in such premises for the purpose of consuming." Line 20, leave out "although." Same line, leave out, "hours," and insert "hour." Same line, leave out, "to be consumed in such premises," and insert, "for more than ten minutes after such hour of closing." The hon. Gentleman said, if a person ordered a glass of brandy and water hot a minute before the fixed hour, it would be very hard to force him to drink it at once, and yet, if he did not do so, the landlord would be liable to penalties for an act which he could not, in common reason or courtesy, prevent. He could not take his customer by the throat and turn him into the street half a minute after the clock struck the fixed hour. He was not individually wedded to ten minutes, and if his right hon. Friend would give any reasonable time for consumption of liquors ordered just before the hour of closing, he would be content.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  supported the Amendment and said, he could not understand why the Home Secretary had given one hour more to London and one less to Dover. Dover needed the hour more than London, for London only needed it for pleasure, while Dover needed it for passengers who, of necessity, were travelling and in need of refreshment.
 GENERAL SHUTE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will, with a view to its remedy, consider the injustice done to the superior officers of the Cavalry by a late warrant reducing the pay of a Colonel of a Cavalry Regiment to that of one of Infantry; whether his attention has been called to the fact, that although these officers received the difference between Cavalry and Infantry when they retired on half pay, yet that they had for many years been losing the interest of and risking with their lives very much larger sums on their commissions than officers of corresponding rank in the Infantry; and, whether he is aware that when Mr. Sydney Herbert equalized the prices of Army Commissions, he, for the above and other reasons, did not think it right to reduce the emoluments of Cavalry Colonels?
 GENERAL SHUTE  gave Notice that, in consequence of the Answer given by the right hon. Gentleman, and as the case deeply affected the vested rights and interests of Cavalry officers, he should on an early clay call the attention of the House to the whole subject.
 MR. D. PLUNKET  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. D. PLUNKET  said, the Bill was, he believed, opposed to the opinion of every well educated and respectable person in Dublin.
 MR. GREENE  agreed with his hon. Friend that in many agricultural districts the proper hour for re-opening on Sundays would be 5 o'clock; but as the House had decided that the hour should be 6, he hoped there would be no division.
 MR. GREENE  said, that in the Eastern counties, if the magistrates decided that houses might open at 5 o'clock in the morning, they would willingly close at 9 o'clock. In his own immediate neighbourhood people went to bed generally at 9 o'clock, and he himself retired to rest, when at home, at 10. He thought the Amendment an improvement to the Bill.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that the difficulty as to who was and who was not a  bonâ fide
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that all that was required was to to insert such words as to make the law perfectly clear on the subject. It was all very well now to sneer at speeches about the "violation of the British Constitution," but a very different tone was taken by hon. Gentlemen opposite towards the end of January last, when plenty of such speeches were heard. What was the case? The law had been vague before the Act of 1872, and they had been told that Lord Aberdare had been advised that the constables had the right of entry even into the private premises of the licensed victualler. Lord Aberdare thought that right ought to exist, and stated it clearly in his Bill. He (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) could not but say that he thought Lord Aberdare was wrong; but, at all events, he had the courage of his opinions. Let the present Government do the same. If they thought the right should exist, let
 109
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  asked whether "hopping" would be inserted?
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that the hour of closing had now been fixed for 12.30 in the metropolis, and he understood the object of the words now proposed by the Government to be that the hour should be 11 in town districts, and 10 in these districts which might be properly called "country." The places to which the 11 o'clock hour would apply, were to be settled by the licensing justices. There was nothing to prevent them from determining that any place was sufficiently "populous" to deserve the application of the 11 o'clock hour. It could not, therefore, be denied that a discretion, however limited, was given to the justices. But
 78
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that after the decision the House had just come to, he could not allow his Amendment to be withdrawn without calling attention to the fact that now that they were about to close public-houses, except in populous places, it would be a great inconvenience, for it was not always in populous places that it was necessary that the hour should be later. It might happen that a public-house was near a railway station, or it might be it was used for various purposes for which it was most desirable that the hour should be later than 10 o'clock. It was no use pressing against the temper of the House such an Amendment as that of which he had given Notice; but there would be great practical inconvenience in a great many places unless there was some means by which the hour might be relaxed. He hoped his right hon. Friend would take this matter into his serious consideration, because it was not always in populous places where this extension of time was required. If he (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) was not mistaken, the Re-turns obtained by the Home Office contained no evidence whatever in favour of closing public-houses in country places at 10 o'clock. The choice was given by the late Government between the hours of 10, 11, and 12, and the great majority of places fixed upon 11. these who were legislating in that House must remember that they belonged to a class who did not frequent public-houses. It was not only the working classes, who were so constantly alluded to, but a great number of the middle classes who frequented these houses and used them in the same way that hon. Members used their clubs; and to close public-houses in the country arbitrarily at 10 o'clock would be inflicting an inconvenience of which they might expect to hear hereafter. He should therefore move the Amendment of which he had given Notice.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  moved in Clause 2, page 2, line 4, to insert, "unless the licensing authority for any such town or parish shall declare that an extension of the hour of closing from 11 until 11.30 is desirable for the public convenience, in which case it shall be lawful for the said licensing authority to allow such extension." In so doing he referred to an observation of the Home Secretary, and said that if he had supposed he had required his advice and moral support, it should willingly have been given, but regarding him as the strong officer of a powerful Government and an united Party, he had not presumed to offer it. He saw no reason why the licensing justices should not be allowed to make a recommendation to the Secretary of State, which was different from giving them that absolute discretion against which the House had declared. It had been said that in his constituency there was a great deal of drunkenness, and statistics had been quoted by the Home Secretary to the effect that the cases in the town of Deal were 1 in 186. He wished to quote a short statement made by the Mayor of Deal, which would show the fallacy of legislating upon statistics. There were 43 cases given out of a population of 8,000, that was 1 in 186; but 28 out of these cases were Marines, seamen and non-residents, so that the actual number of cases from the real population of Deal was 15, or 1 in 533. Moreover, in this number of 15 was the case of one man who had
 87
 MR. VERNER  moved that the Chairman report Progress, alleging that the hon. Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance) and other Members had left the House under the full impression that the Bill would not be proceeded with at so late an hour.
 MR. ERNEST NOEL  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether, it is true that in the month of November last the yellow fever broke out on board Her Majesty's Ship "Aboukir" at Port Royal, and that in a crew of two hundred and forty Europeans there were a hundred and twenty cases of the fever, twenty-one of which were fatal; whether the ship was then cleaned out and the crew sent to the North; that now orders have been despatched for their return to the "Aboukir" at a season when the fever is likely to break out again, and that this has been done in opposition to the opinion of the medical
 73
 MR. J. S. HARDY  said, that as the Amendment stood, it would compel all the public-houses in the country to be closed at 9 on Sunday evening. Believing that the Bill had already gone far enough in the direction of restriction, he would vote against the Amendment.
 MR. ESTCOURT  moved, in page 2, line 37, to insert after "hour," the words "or closed at a later hour." His only object was that the publican might
 94
 MR. GOSCHEN  remarked that the right hon. Gentleman had two or three times told them that it was the same thing that these towns were in one list or another. Did he repeat that? [Mr. ASSHETON CROSS: Yes.] Well, in the one case they were liable, and in another case they were not. All the assertions of the right hon. Gentleman that he had not changed would not change the opinion of the House, and he hoped it would not change the opinion of the country.
 MR. GREGORY  said, that as he was not compromised by the action of the late Government, he might add his appeal to that of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen), and ask for a further consideration of this matter. There was a large class of respectable persons besides  bonâ fide
 MR. GREGORY  saw no violation of the British Constitution in the clause as it stood. Nothing could be clearer than that, if the constable entered the premises without reasonable grounds, he was responsible for his conduct; otherwise, he was exonerated.
 MR. GREGORY  moved to leave out the clause.
 MR. HUNT  rose to Order. There was no Question before the House.
 MR. HUNT , in reply, said, reports of the outbreak of yellow fever on board the  Aboukir en route Aboukir Sphinx, Niobe Seagull Sphinx Aboukir 74 Urgent Aboukir
 MR. HUNT , in reply, said, that communications had passed between the Admiralty and Sir Joseph Whitworth upon the subject, and the Admiralty had decided not to accept his offer of a trial.
 MR. LEEMAN  earnestly hoped that the Home Secretary would not press the Amendment. It appeared to him to be utterly inconsistent with the principle of the Bill as he first introduced it to the House. Everybody understood that one of the main objects of the Bill was to take away the discretionary power entrusted to the magistrates by the Act of 1872—a power which, it was urged by the Government, had been so misused as to have called forth its condemnation in no measured terms. He voted with the Government on the introduction of the Bill, and had supported it hitherto upon
 83
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he thought the Home Secretary must feel again the perilous position in which he had placed himself by his continual change of front. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down objected to the population test; but the question of population was that which the Government
 120
 MR. LEEMAN  said, that for the reasons he had given the House a few minutes ago he should propose that the House should now adjourn. He was quite certain the clause under consideration was both an unwise and an unworkable clause. They had seen again and again, night after night, Notices given in the morning, and when they came to discuss them in the evening, found that they were practically abandoned. It was therefore only just and fair they should have time for consideration of the words thus adopted by the House, and it was, he urged, important for the interests of the country and both sides of the House that an adjournment should take place.
 MR. MELLY  said, that the hours of closing, no doubt, had been settled by Clause 2, but they had been unsettled in four or five instances subsequently. The licensing magistrates had been given complete discretion as to the hours of closing where agricultural, fishing, harvesting, and mining purposes were concerned. For these exceptional cases the hours were to be altered. Why, then, refuse the rural population the privilege, if the magistrate so decided, of having the public-houses in their district re-opened at 5 o'clock for their convenience at tea and supper time?
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would take the sense of the House on his Amendment. In the eastern counties the evening service was between 6 and 7 o'clock, and very shortly after people retired to rest. He knew that not only the clergy of the Church of England, but all the Dissenting ministers, were in favour of the change.
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  wished to say, he did not think the House quite understood the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman. It had, in his opinion, just been correctly described by his hon. Friends behind him; but to put the point clearly, he begged to move an addition to the proposed Amendment.
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  believed that under this Bill constables would still have power to enter private rooms; and what the Government ought to do was to make the law clear, so that victuallers might not be induced to believe that they had received a great benefit when really none was conferred.
 MR. TREVELYAN  said, he hoped hon. Members would vote on the merits of the Amendment, and not be led away by any talk about  ad captandum
 SIR HENRY JAMES  complained that the House could obtain no direct declaration or clear statement from the Government as to the right of police-constables to enter any portion of the premises of a publican. The Amendment of his hon. Friend (Sir Edward Watkin) put this to the test, and if hon. Members voted against it, they would recognize that the police had a right to enter the premises of a licensed victualler. The Government declined to put into this Bill what they meant, and were equally resolved not to say it by word of mouth; so that the House had better vote for the Amendment and make the matter clear.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered the complaint of the right hon. Member for Chester (Mr. Dodson), or explained why the 35th section of the Act of 1872 should be interfered with. To that there had been no answer. The Act of 1872
 105
 SIR HENRY JAMES  observed, that if that was the intention, it appeared to him that the responsibility should be placed on the Legislature or the Government, not on the constable. They were seeking to repeal an enactment which gave the constable the power, and which was passed by a Government which said that the constable should have it. The licensed victuallers objected to the constable having the power, and the Government meant that he should have it, but they did not say so. They wished him to have it, in order that, if there was an offence committed under the principal Act, he might enter private rooms; but they yet wanted to repeal the section which gave the power. Why did they discontinue the provision which gave the power, when they were anxious that it should be retained? Why should they strike out that section, and then throw the responsibility for what might happen, not upon the Legislature, nor upon the Government either of the original or of the amending Act, but upon the constable? Did they think that worthy legislation? The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Home Department (Sir Henry Selwin-Ibbetson) signified his assent; but what benefit was obtained by this course? They repealed the Act of 1872, which said that the constable had a right to search private rooms, and now said that the constable was to have the right of entry, and afterwards of defending himself by an undefined law. It was paying a debt in base coin. ["Oh, oh!"] He repeated it, and took the responsibility of what he said. If the Government meant that the constable was to enter upon the premises in accordance
 106
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON  said, there was no doubt as to what the law was before 1872. By the 4 and 5  Will 108
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON  proposed an extension of hours in the agricultural districts during the four harvest months.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the Amendment as it stood would undoubtedly have the effect stated by the hon. Member for Eye, and he would, therefore, propose to omit the words "or six." Its effect would then be that all houses opening at 5 should close at 9, and all houses opening at 6, at 10.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, they had two points of importance to deal with which had been mixed up in debate. One was the question of late hours in towns, and the other whether there should be a discretionary power of fixing 10 o'clock as the hour for closing not only in towns with less than a certain number of inhabitants, but in districts which might be dealt with as "populous places." The first question had been debated very fully the other night, and it might be assumed that a general agreement had been come to upon it. "With respect to what constituted or should constitute a "populous place," he would suggest that the Amendment should at present be agreed to, and by the time they came to the Interpretation Clause, they might be able to agree upon, and to define strictly the meaning of the term "populous places" so as to narrow the discretionary power which many hon. Members thought so objectionable.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, hon. Members had come down expecting to be advised by the Government to define a town to be a place with 2,500 inhabitants, but suddenly the Government had abandoned that definition and proposed another, including all urban sanitary districts, however small, and leaving it to the justices to call any other place they wished populous. But, inasmuch as the former class would include small villages, justices would be utterly non-plussed on what plea to avoid extending the hour of 11 to all the country. By adhering to the original definition of a town, no injustice would be done.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that in his own county, for instance, there was a long list of urban sanitary districts with only 400, 500, 600, or 700 inhabitants, and what he wished to point out was that if they gave these places the opportunity of closing at 11, it would be impossible to refuse it to hundreds of other parishes and villages.
 MR. CHILDERS  asked the Secretary of State where he obtained his information as to these small populations being only about a dozen? He held in his hand a Return of all the urban sanitary districts with less than 2,500 inhabitants, and there were about 200 of them.
 MR. BUTT  reminded the Chief Secretary for Ireland that he gave a distinct pledge that he would not attempt to alter the principle of the Bill or delay its progress.
 MR. BUTT , who had charge of the Bill, opposed the Motion, urging that he could not get any other time for bringing on the Bill, and that he had a distinct pledge from the Chief Secretary that the Government approved of the Bill in principle.
 MR. STANSFELD  asked the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary whether his attention had been called to the fact that a vast number of urban sanitary districts had less than 2,500 inhabitants.
 MR. WATNEY  said, that the present Bill would repeal the most offensive clause of 1872, and would restore the old law, which had worked well.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  in reply, said, that he was not aware whether the offices referred to were closed during as long a time as was mentioned in the Question
 76
 MR. DODSON  said, he would move  pro formâ 104
 MR. DODSON  asked if the Home Secretary intended to accept this Amendment? [Mr. ASSHETON CROSS said, he did not.] Because, if so, supposing it were to be found that a man, from fleas or other causes, did not sleep, how would that affect the publican?
 MR. DODSON  said, he quite agreed with the object of the right hon. Gentleman, but he doubted whether the trade would be protected by the clause as it stood. A man might lodge on the previous night within three miles of the place where he asked to be served with drink, and yet be a very  bonâ fide bonâ fide 102 bonâ fide
 MR. DODSON  said, he should conclude with a Motion. He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would give any definition of the term "harvesting operations." Did it include hay harvest, bark harvest, and hop picking, or any of them, as well as corn harvest? It was well known that in all such operations men were employed early and late. In conclusion, he begged to move,  pro formâ
 MR. DODSON  said, he wished to ask the Government, what they meant by "harvesting operations?" The term seemed to him much more vague and indefinite than the famous "populous places."
 MR. DODSON , said, the Government had conducted the Bill with so much versatile ability that it was difficult to give the history of it. The Government had been recently congratulated on having a "back-bone," but it might now be more accurately said that they were an "invertebrate" Government.
 124
 MR. LOCKE  said, that so far as the hour of opening was concerned, he should support 5 o'clock. For a great number of years 5 was the hour, and it was only recently that it was altered to 6. Six o'clock was very inconvenient to many persons, but 7 was an abomination. The proposal had been introduced in a very extraordinary manner. It was an arrangement made evidently with reference to the hours of Divine worship; but if the public convenience in such matters was to be regulated by the clergy, the public would soon find themselves in a very awkward position. He submitted that the Home Secretary had no right whatever to send him to church on a Sunday evening, or to insist upon his giving up the pleasure of dining where he liked. He should support 5 o'clock.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as one of the unfortunate individuals who had to administer the law after it was passed, he could not form the least opinion as to what the Amendment meant. It said that a populous place should be defined as defined in the Act; but the Bill at present contained no definition of a populous place. That was one reason why the House ought again to go into Committee on the Bill. The only definition of a populous place which he could in any way make out was that it should be a place of 2,500 inhabitants. The
 84
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  moved the omission of the latter part of the clause, which provided that no person should be regarded as a  bonâ fide bonâ fide
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he did not violate any pledge in objecting to go on at that hour.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  thought that a question of such import-
 129
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, the arrangement to which the hon. Gentleman referred was made in 1849 by the Boundaries Commissioners. It was made on various grounds, one of which was that the townlands in question belonged to the proprietor of a considerable portion of the rest of the union to which they were annexed. The arrangement having lasted for so long a time it would be very inconvenient to alter it, especially as regarded the registry of births, deaths, and marriages. An inquiry, however, had been made by one of the Inspectors attached to the Local Government Board to whom the ratepayers made a statement strongly in favour of retaining the present arrangement. The Local Government Board did not therefore contemplate any alteration of the existing state of things; but he would inquire further as to the necessity or otherwise of taking any action.
 MR. M. P. SCOTT (for Mr. GREGORY)  moved, in page 6, line 4, to leave out the word "or," and insert "which by such Act was to have been endorsed upon the licence, or of any offence against this." The object of the Amendment was to limit the power of the magistrate, in respect of making endorsements upon the licences of publicans.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  wished to know whether the power would include the case of seafaring people.
 MAJOR O'GORMAN : Sir, seeing the effects of sorrow, upon my life I thought it was to-morrow. Really, Sir, I do not know whether it is to-morrow or yesterday, but I want to know at what hour the House will meet.
 MR. ASSHETON  said, he quite concurred in the opinion expressed by the two previous speakers.
 MR. ASSHETON  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Oxford that considerable pressure would be brought to bear upon the magistrates; and therefore it was his intention at the proper time to move an Amendment making the County Licensing Committee, as created under the Act of 1872, the tribunal to decide what were and what were not populous places under the meaning of the Act.
 COLONEL DYOTT  observed, that he believed the House was agreed upon the principle that it was desirable to close public-houses during the hours of Divine worship; but it was impossible to regulate the opening and closing of public-houses by these of the churches. He believed that the present hours, from 8 to 6, had given satisfaction, and that from 3 to 7 would not. He should vote for 6 o'clock.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  was of opinion that there ought to be some reasonable space allowed between the time of refreshments being ordered and that for their consumption.
 MR. BRISTOWE  also opposed the Amendment, believing that the proviso in question, while it did not accomplish all he could desire, went as far as the Home Secretary felt that he could go towards meeting an acknowledged difficulty.
 MR. BRISTOWE  observed, that it was plain that the effect of the whole of the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment would be such as it had been described. It appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman meant the justices to decide what were "populous places."
 MR. BRISTOWE  moved, in page 10, line 10, after "opposed," insert—
 111 "And if the grounds of such objection shall, in the opinion of the justices present at such meeting, he frivolous or vexatious, such justices may direct such costs as they in their discretion shall think fit to be paid by such objector to the holder of any such licence so sought to be renewed as aforesaid."
 MR. BRISTOWE  said, he was not very much surprised by the majority which the Government had just obtained in the last division. The reasons which had been urged for further consideration by his hon. Friend who moved the adjournment of the debate had not been answered by the Members against the Motion, and he should therefore move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. WADDY  said, he thought it would be preferable that the clause should remain as it was originally proposed.
 MR. BARING  moved that the parish of West Ham, in the county of Essex, should be considered as lying within the metropolitan area. It was a rule of fair play that similar persons residing in similar localities carrying on similar trades should be treated in a similar manner.
 112
 MR. EARP  said, it was distinctly laid down by the Act of 1872 that the police should have the power of entering all licensed premises to ascertain if any persons were drinking at hours prohibited by law. The present clause only did the same, and he should therefore support it.
 MR. EVANS  said, he had no desire to see the Bill rejected, but he knew of one particular case which would not be met by this provision, and which was a sample of others, and he should like to see an endeavour made to meet the requirements of such population.
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, it was not thought desirable to refer the Petition in question to the Civil Service Inquiry Commission, as it related to cases of individual hardship, the Committee having been appointed to consider the organization of the service rather than such cases of hardship.
 MR. W. S. STANHOPE  said, he hoped the House would preserve the clause as it was. It would really protect the publican. He believed the definition would put a stop to illicit drinking by miners in the Midlands, who meanwhile walked out to neighbouring villages, got drunk, and created much disturbance.
 MR. BEACH  remarked that during harvest labourers had to get up very early in the morning, and nothing could be more injudicious than to give them an excuse for sitting up late.
 MR. BEACH  said, the effect of that would be to give the labourers an excuse for drinking at a later period of the evening.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman should state some reason for his Amendment.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he very much regretted that reconsideration. If the Government first proposed G, and then, after being convinced from the debate in Committee that it should be 7, came back to 6, it was not very easy for the House to assent to such a proceeding.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he did not see what advantage there could be in retaining the words "continuous line," especially as they were connected with "collection" by "or." If they had been connected with it by "and" it would be altogether different. He thought it of great importance to keep the word "immediately."
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought the House must be tired of discussing the matter; but the reason for discussing it so closely was that the right hon. Gentleman found that after laying his Amendment on the Table of the House it was necessary to alter it. The right hon. Gentleman now proposed
 119
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that if the proposition of his right hon. Friend the Member for Chester (Mr. Dodson) had been accepted they would not be now in the difficulty in which they found themselves. They were not in Committee on the Bill, and the right hon. Gentleman ought to make some allowances on that account. His hon. Friend the Member for York (Mr. Leeman) who, it was fair to remember, had generally supported Government throughout the progress of this Bill, had not moved the adjournment on account of the lateness of the hour. It had been remarked by the right hon. Gentleman that the House was at present in a good condition for evading or solving a difficulty. [Mr. DISRAELI: Not to evade but to solve.] He (Mr. Forster) maintained that in order to solve difficulties like the present they needed the assistance of Government. Their difficulty, indeed, arose from the fact that they had not the assistance of Government. There were two grounds on which an adjournment might be asked for—one that the House was too exhausted to proceed, and the other that the Government did not seem to know its own mind. The latter was the case now. The right hon. Gentleman had said that this was not a matter of much importance; but, in reality, it was equal in importance to any other point connected with the Bill. Would the House allow him for a moment to go over the changes that Government had made. ["Oh, oh!"] It was natural that hon. Gentlemen who had supported Government in all the changes that had been made would not like to be reminded of them. In regard to the hour of closing public-houses, it had originally been proposed that outside the metropolis, in towns of more than 10,000 inhabitants, it should be 11.30, and that in all other places it should be 11. But a great pressure was put upon the Government, and an outcry came from all classes for closing at 11. They had agreed that all public-houses and beer-houses were to be put at the same hour; and, secondly, that all drinking houses in places not having 2,500 inhabitants were to be closed at 10. Thus had the Committee decided—that any towns having 2,500 inhabitants were to close at 11, and all places below at 10. Then came the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment,
 123
 Mr. W. E. FORSTER  said, that the side of the House on which he sat would have no objection to the arrangement proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. There was no desire on their part to impede the progress of this measure. The ground upon which these Motions had been made was the sudden change that had occurred in the mind of the Government. No discussion had ever been conducted in that House with a greater desire to help the Government than that on this Bill. He hoped that the Government would have made up its mind by to-morrow as to how they would deal with the important matters affected by this measure.
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he was very much surprised that this discussion should have been raised. They were told that the 35th clause of the Act was the same as the 13th section of the Bill, and that the Bill was precisely the same as the law was before the Act of 1872. That was not the case. By the 35th section of the Act of 1872 a constable could go over every part of a publican's house, whether there was any violation of the Act or not. He could search every room, every cupboard in it, and he could say he would go to-morrow, or the day after, and take an account of the liquors stored therein, though there might not be more than five barrels of beer in the whole house. The police might enter and rummage a whole house, regardless of the comfort of its inmates, or the interest of the public. That was a power which was naturally most offensive to publicans; but the power in the 13th clause was of a very different character. The power was there given for a specific purpose, "for the purpose of preventing or detecting the violation of any provisions of the Act," and that was a power which no publican would object to. The difference was so plain, that he wondered why his hon. and learned Friend should not see it.
 MR. FORSYTH  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is true that last week, in the Police Court of Bolton, a man named William Venables was convicted of savagely, and without any provocation, kicking, with iron-shod clogs, a woman named Ellen Hindley and her baby, and was sentenced to only three months' imprisonment; and, if he can explain why the full punishment of six months' imprisonment was not inflicted?
 SIR WILLLAM HARCOURT  said, the right hon. Gentleman amended his proposed definition of a populous district, and removed some of the inconveniences that existed; but he did not define the method by which justices should ascertain and determine what a
 79 80
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he hoped the Government would accept the Amendment, otherwise publicans would suffer a great hardship. They could not refuse to sell until the very hour of closing, and yet, if a customer remained one minute afterwards to drink the liquor he had bought, a penalty of £10 or £20 would be incurred. It was unjust to draw such a hard-and-fast line, and he felt sure that such a monstrous provision could not be enforced.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  observed, that there was a very easy way in which the right hon. Gentleman could show that he had not changed the Bill, and that was by his not changing his word. If he kept to his word of that morning, they would know that he had made no change; but if he did not, he must not quarrel with them if they inferred that he had reasons for doing so.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, that any opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman with respect to constitutional principles was, no doubt, entitled to every respect; but he did not recollect that the principle now laid down had been adhered to by the right hon. Gentleman and his Friends during the five years of the last Parliament. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Lowther), whom he did not now see in his place, and other hon. Members, as soon as they saw the hands of the clock moving to the figure of 12, moved the adjournment, no matter what the question was—the Irish Church Bill, the Irish Land Bill, the Ballot Bill, or any other important measure. They heard nothing then of the constitutional principle now laid down by the right hon. Gentleman. He was bound to confess that the right hon. Gentleman generally retired early from these contests, which sometimes lasted up to five o'clock in the morning. Like the Captain—
 "He fled full soon on the 1st of June, And bade the rest keep fighting." 126
 MR. WELBY  moved, in page 2, line 35, to insert after the word "harvesting," the words "or other agricultural." There were many agricultural operations which required the early attendance of men besides harvesting operations.
 MR. WELBY  moved to insert after "in," at page 2, line 35, "fishing and." Amendment  agreed to
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  said, he believed the proposed hour in the Bill would cause considerable inconvenience in many parts of the country. Now, there was a great thorough fare between Leeds and Harrogate, and a large inn or public-house at a place called Hare-wood, which was clearly a house of call resorted to by great numbers of people going that way. If under the present regulation it was closed at 10 o'clock, the inconvenience to thousands would be very serious, and he hoped his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary would direct his attention to it.
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  said, he hoped a concession of this kind would on no account be made a matter of discretion on the part of the justices. There would be cases which would never be met unless something of this kind were done. He spoke on behalf of a very large constituency, and it had been represented to him that it would be utterly impossible to carry out the Act if the publicans were allowed to supply their customers up to the very last moment of closing and to have their house clear at the same time. It was all very well to say that unless this were done it would endanger the licence; but whether it was so or not, was it not better to have this matter settled definitely by Act of Parliament than to leave it to be decided by the magistrates? If the House agreed to give 10 minutes' or a quarter of an hour's grace, he thought it would be regarded as satisfactory.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  said, the Home Secretary had recognized the principle when he extended the hours of closing in exempted houses from 12.15 to 12.30.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  moved, in page 10, line 3, at beginning of clause, to insert as a paragraph—
 "Whereas by section forty-two of the principal Act it is enacted that a licensed person applying for the renewal of his licence need not attend in person at the general annual licensing meeting unless he is required by the licensing justices so to attend: Be it Enacted, That such requisition shall not be made save for some special cause personal to the licensed person to whom such requisition is sent."
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Paymaster General, Whether it is true that boys of the Duke of York's School have been sent into the country lately to play a match against the boys of a Reformatory, and the boys from the Reformatory allowed to come to London to play a return match?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  said, he would put a further Question on the subject.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Petition of Clerks in the Statistical Department of Her Majesty's Customs, presented some months ago to the Lords of the Treasury, has been referred to the Commission of Inquiry into the Civil Service; and, if not, whether there is any objection to such a course?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  moved that the Bill be now read a second time, the object of which was to enable Poor Law Guardians to be elected by ballot.
 SIR EDWABD WATKIN  denied that he was actuated by any personal motive in moving the Amendment. He had called attention to the subject on the second reading, and had understood the Home Secretary to propose to remedy the grievance. He only moved now because the right hon. Gentleman had offered nothing. He did so simply as an act of justice, and reminded hon. Gentlemen that it was unparliamentary to impute motives to any hon. Member.
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  said, he thought the explanations of the Homo Secretary very unsatisfactory. Everybody knew the complaint which the licensed victuallers urged against the Act
 107 s
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  said, there was something involved in this beyond the question of illicit drinking. Did the Government intend by this clause that a police-constable might at any time by night or by clay enter a room—even the bedroom of a licensed victualler? That was the question, and he would divide the Committee on a question which violated the principles of the British Constitution. He would now move that the words which he had stated be inserted.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  supported the Amendment. He had received a letter from a most respectable publican complaining of the definition. If the definition were insisted on the consequence would be that the publican would not supply the public, lest he should get into a mess, and the public would consequently be subjected to much hardship. He had further to complain of the provision that the three miles were to be measured in a straight line. They ought to be measured by the nearest road. Altogether the definition seemed to him an injustice inflicted on sober people for the sake of drunkards.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  observed, that the persons referred to might be travellers, but if the houses were shut up they would not be able to obtain refreshment. He contended that a hard-and-fast line ought not to be fixed, and that if the Government adopted one they would make themselves as unpopular as the late Government, and many persons who had voted for them at the last Election would not support them when they next went to the country.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that a certain proportion of the House seemed to have made up their minds not to listen to any discussion, but to vote according to foregone conclusions. It was very hard upon a man who did not belong to a club to say that between 3 and 6 on the afternoon of Sundays he should not be able to get any dinner. Instead of 6, it would be much better if the hour were 5. He did not know on what principle they proposed that the only places where a man could get his dinner on Sundays should be closed from 3 to 6 o'clock. It
 91
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, he thought the magistrates should be allowed discretion in extending the hours during the months of June, July, August, and September.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  submitted that the Government had practically adopted his suggestion of 7 o'clock, and he was therefore relieved of responsibility in the matter. At the same time, he had no wish to oppose what now appeared to be the feeling of the House. He had never desired to go against the wishes of the metropolis in this matter, but had only wished that 7 should be the hour to be adopted in rural districts. The town of Liverpool was going to petition the House of Lords for 7 o'clock.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  moved, in page 3, line 13, after "o'clock," to insert—
 "And for the purposes of such accommodation as aforesaid, the licensing justices may further vary the hours of opening and closing such premises on the evenings of the days above named: Provided always, That the hour of opening shall not he earlier than five o'clock, nor later than seven o'clock; but in all cases whore such premises are directed to he opened at five or six o'clock they shall he closed at nine instead of at ten o'clock."
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, he was quite willing to accept the suggestion made by the right hon. Gentleman.
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE  believed the Amendment to be a good one, and on the ground of public convenience he should give it his cordial support.
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE  believed, on the whole, that it would be a great practical convenience in the neighbourhood of London if the hour of 6 were adopted. With regard to the hour of 5, he thought that the publicans themselves deserved some consideration, and he therefure trusted that hour would not be inserted in the Bill.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has been rightly understood as having said that, owing to urgent representations which had been made to Her Majesty's Government, it was intended to appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into the Licensing System in Scotland; and, if so, whether he will state from whom these representations proceeded?
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, there were two important points on which he had pledged himself to his constituency. One was as to the hours of closing, and the other was as to the uniformity of these hours. There had been a cry for a division just now; but he did not think that, though so many Members had spoken, he ought to be prevented from expressing his opinion and that of his constituents upon what was after all one of the essential points in question. He said most unhesitatingly that the Bill of the Home Secretary, when it was introduced, met a public demand by taking away the discretionary power entrusted to magistrates by the Act of 1872 in fixing the hours of opening and closing public-houses. The abuse of that power had led to general and to deep dissatisfaction all over the country; and everybody understood that one principal object of the Bill introduced by the Government was to take away the discretionary power which had been so unwisely used and to fix the hours by Parliament itself. It was impossible that he could vote for the clause now before the House when he found that this important point was surrendered, and the magistrates were, under
 82
 SIR JOHN KARSLAKE  said, he hoped the House would not adopt the addition proposed by the hon. Member, but would support the Government in striking out the words "two thousand five hundred." Population was a false test in a matter of this kind. The proposal of the Home Secretary gave a complete definition of a town without imposing a hard-and-fast line which would cause great injustice.
 SIR JOHN KARSLAKE  said, that if the word "immediately" were struck out they would be exercising more discretion. A line of houses might be practically contiguous, yet it might be broken by a bridge, a road, or a small field.
 MR. PEASE  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment was in contravention of a great and desirable principle of the Bill, that a broad distinction should be drawn between town and country places, and that in the former the hour of closing should be 11, and in the latter 10. When he took away the limit of 2,500, however, he would be doing an admitted evil, by giving to beer-shops in small places a power they never before enjoyed.
 MR. PEASE  denied that the Amendment would place any more difficulties upon the magistrates than was the case at present. On the contrary, if it did anything, it limited these difficulties. This Bill had already taken away a good deal of the discretion of the magistrates, and he did not wish the Government to go further than it had done in that respect. He only hoped the right hon. Gentleman would adhere to his definition of populous places.
 MR. PEASE  said, he believed the Amendment did not apply to the metropolitan district, and he believed that in many parts of the country these who opened their houses at S o'clock in the morning were very happy to close them at 9 o'clock at night.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : Sir, an eleven from the Duke of York's School went some time ago into the country, under the charge of the Commandant, to play a cricket match with an eleven from Feltham School, and were thoroughly beaten. I believe that a return match is in contemplation. But Feltham is an Industrial, not a Reformatory School, as mentioned in the Question of the hon. Baronet, the broad distinction between the two—a distinction pertinent to this Question—being that no lad can be taken into the Army or Navy from a Reformatory; whereas from Feltham last year 36 lads entered the Army and eight the Navy. With regard to the Feltham eleven, I understand that none have ever been convicted, and that they are equal in point of respectability to the ordinary run of boys in the Duke of York's School and to the recruits with whom these will have to associate when they enlist for service.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  reminded his right hon. Friend that the House had already decided that the hours should be from 6 to 10, and he hoped he would abide by that decision.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  moved, in line 3, to leave out the word "immediately," because a number of houses might, as had been said, be on the opposite side of a river; and it would be hard that they should be obliged to close at a different hour from the houses in the town.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he was glad that the Home Secretary had accepted his first Amendment, as the "2,500 inhabitants" would have been a useless encumbrance to his Bill. He would now move to leave out from the Home Secretary's Amendment the words "or continuous line," and he did so because they all knew perfectly well that although there might be a large collection of houses "immediately" outside of a town, there were many instances in which these houses were not in "a continuous line." He knew of several instances where there was a meadow or field intervening, and yet these houses were, as it were, a part and parcel of the town. This matter should be clearly settled, so that the justices might have no difficulty in deciding the question.
 SIR WILERID LAWSON  said, he hoped the House would allow him to say one word before the Question was put. He had not troubled them with any remarks during the progress of the Bill through Committee, but though he had not spoken, he had thought a great deal. The fact was that he did not know what to say, because the principle of the Bill had changed every day, and the details of it every hour. But he now spoke because it was evident to him that the Bill was getting from bad to worse, and they were retrograding at an unhappy pace. The right hon. Gentleman had already extended the hours of the beer-shops in all the small places within a radius of 15 miles from London by an hour at night; and the clause under consideration would, if carried, have the effect of giving another hour to the beer-shops through a large portion of the country. He asked, was it possible that hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House—country Gentlemen representing largo and influential constituencies—could support any extension of the beer-shop hours? The last thing he expected to find was the great party on the Ministerial benches extending the hours of sale for beer-shops. If this atrocious clause—he hoped the language was Parliamentary—were carried, all he could say was, that he should do his very best to get the Bill thrown out on the third reading. He did not suppose he should succeed; but he had no doubt that he should receive the support of a number of people to whom the common decency and credit of that House were dear.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether he is aware that since he replied to the hon. Member for Swansea's (Mr. Dillwyn's) Question, touching the late disturbance at Leamington Station, Lord Aylesford has sent a written apology to the Great Western Railway Company for his "over zeal," and has also paid a sum of money to the railway servants with whom he came into collision; and, whether the Military authorities intend to take any further steps in the matter?
 COLONEL MAKINS , in supporting the Amendment moved by his hon. Colleague, said the district affected by it was a very large one. It contained many town-halls, many churches, many large railway works and manufactories. It was, in fact, only a portion of the metropolis within the radius of five miles of Charing Cross, and it was as much a part of London as Bow, Stratford, or even Southwark, and, instead of being one hour worse than their neighbours as the inhabitants were before, they would be 2½ hours worse under the Bill—an hour in the morning, and one hour and a-half in the evening. He therefore hoped the Home Secretary would concede what appeared to be a simple act of justice to a portion of the metropolitan population, who were, by a mere geographical accident, shut out from the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that he said the other day it was his wish to consolidate all the Factory Laws; but it was a question of some difficulty as well as of some importance. For that reason he thought it would be better to appoint a Committee to inquire and report upon the whole subject as soon as possible, with a view to legislation on the subject. He might say as well that the inquiry would embrace the question of extending the Factories Act to other manufactures than textile ones.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Yes, Sir, if my hon. Friend will move for those Returns, they shall be furnished.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved to add, at the end of the previous Amendment, after the word "town," the words—
 171 "After it has been declared so to be by an order of the licensing committee having jurisdiction in the place where such houses are situated."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that no slur whatever was intended to be cast upon the justices of petty sessions. Indeed, his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary stated on the previous day his reasons for making the alteration with respect to the licensing committee. In most counties with which he was acquainted, the licensing committee was a representative committee for different petty sessions; and therefore it would consist of those who were acquainted with all parts of a county. There would, therefore, be some uniformity of action. Many districts where there were populous places were divided into different parishes, which might not be in the petty sessional division.
 MAJOR PAGET  also expressed his approval of the Amendment, and trusted that the Government would see their way to accept it.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, there were many small places divided by a river, in close proximity to each other, where the proposal would cause great inconvenience.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he was of the same opinion. His right hon. Friend was mistaken when he said
 177
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in moving an Amendment which stood on the Paper in the name of the hon. Member for Clitheroe (Mr. Assheton), and as to which he signified the willingness of the Government to accept, said, that objection had been taken to the term "populous place," and it had been said that there would be difficulty in deciding what a populous place was. But he had to remind the House that it was no new thing to fix what was a populous place. If any hon. Member would look back to the Census taken in 1861, he would see that the persons charged with making out the Census wanted to find out how many towns there were. They simply applied to the Clerks of the Peace of each county, and on the Returns which the clerks made they had no difficulty in ascertaining the number of towns. Magistrates would just have to do now what the Census clerks did then.
 MR. GOLDSMID  wanted to know how the last part of the Amendment would apply to towns once populous, but which might ultimately fall under the limit which might be fixed? The constituency which he once represented was gradually diminishing, and there were many villages in the West of England which, though they had not yet fallen under what was now considered to be a populous place, were losing their population, and would ultimately do so.
 MR. PAGET  supported the Amendment. The suggestion of the hon. Member who last spoke would amount to giving power to keep open all the inns at all the small places in the country.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  thought that his acceptance of the previous Amendment had already answered the purpose intended to be carried out by the Amendment now under discussion. He would, however, accept the limit proposed.
 MR. STAVELEY HILL  said, that the present Bill was really a mass of unintelligible stuff. The handbooks picked up at railway stations were models of perspicuity when compared with it. He had hoped that the Act to be passed this Session would have been a digest of the licensing law, such as that
 180 Monday he printed
 MR. BRUCE  trusted there would be a declaration on the part of the Government that, although it did not accept the Amendment, it would not on that account consider itself precluded from taking up the question at some future time, and dealing with it in a fair and permanent way.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he did not feel altogether comfortable at the idea of trusting this matter to a Vote. He thought a Vote, instead of an Act, was rather a precarious footing on which to rely for a contribution on account of Crown property. One illustration of the inconvenience of discussing the Bill at the present time was that hon. Members had not been able to procure the necessary documents.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, in his opinion, the noble Lord's Amendment was of such a nature that it could not be put.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-QUER  said, that as the hour had arrived for suspending the sitting he had no objection to the Motion. He proposed to ask for a vote of £120,000 for this purpose.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYEE  rose to Order. The hon. Gentleman appeared to be discussing a Bill which was not now before the House.
 MR. CARPENTER-GARNIER  said, he was glad the question had been brought forward, for, as the law stood at present, a tenant, unless protected by express stipulations or by the custom of the country, could not obtain compensation for permanent improvements, and he thought that law ought to be altered. The Committee which sat in 1848, under the presidency of Mr. Pusey, reported that it was inexpedient to interfere with the freedom of contract. English farmers were perfectly capable of entering into contracts and protecting themselves, and it would be a very dangerous precedent to do away with freedom of contract. He would give a fair and equitable compensation to tenants, and he hoped the Government would direct their attention to this subject, with the view of introducing next Session a Bill founded on that of the hon. Member for South Norfolk, but without the 12th clause. Nearly three-fourths of the land of this country was held on yearly agreement, without compensation, and the Bill of last Session, without the 12th clause, would affect all those cases.
 MR. CHAPLIN  joined in the appeal to the hon. Member for Lincoln not to go to a division. Many Gentlemen on his side of the House, including himself, took as great an interest in that question as the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Seely), and to them the speech of the Prime Minister was eminently satisfactory.
 MR. SULLIVAN  supported the Amendment.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, that in the City of Dublin this clause would lead to the very worst consequences. Previous to the passing of the late Act of Parliament, there were what were called night-houses in London allowed by the Commissioner of Police to be open nearly all night, presumably for the convenience of printers, but the fact was these houses wore open to all the world. He protested against the possibility of a gin-palace being opened at all hours at the very doors of largo factories, and the only effect of such a course would be to demoralize those establishments.
 MR. SULLIVAN  moved the rejection of the clause altogether, and in doing so, said, he had no objection to the power as regarded fairs or markets, but what he did object to was giving the Commissioner of Police in Dublin the power of allowing public-houses to be open all night for the convenience of particular trades. If, however, the clause were amended so as to include fairs and markets, he would not oppose it.
 LORD ESLINGTON  believed that if there was any dissatisfaction caused by the present system, it would not be removed by leaving the amount of the contribution on Government property to be fixed arbitrarily by Commissioners.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, that under the Bill all the mineral property of the Crown would be rated. The Government had given good reasons for not dealing in the Bill with all Government property, and as they had promised to deal with the rest of the question on a future day, he hoped progress would be
 186
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that no Report on the subject had yet been received from the Office of Works, but their attention had been called to the advisability of protecting the office from the danger of fire. The construction of suitable new buildings for the Department was in contemplation, and inquiries had been set on foot with the view of ascertaining what kind of building would be the most convenient and the safest for the purpose.
 MR. PELL  said, he was somewhat startled by the speech of the hon. Member for Lincoln, who did not say a word about there being anything defective in the cultivation of the land of this country, nor make any suggestion for improving that cultivation; but, on the contrary, had directed his whole efforts against the Bill of last year. Her Majesty's Government could learn very little from that speech, unless to distrust the advice of one of their own Members, whose Bill of last year the hon. Gentleman had so severely criticized. The hon. Member for Linlithgow followed the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lincoln, and certainly that hon. Gentleman had no very high opinion of the farmers south of the Tweed, whom he styled serfs and instruments in the hands of the landlords who oppressed them; but he said not a single word to lead to the inference that the land was not producing as much as it could possibly do. He (Mr. Pell) would challenge any other country to show such results. The cultivation of the land had improved and was improving. Not a word had been said about the cultivation of the land of other countries; but no other country in Europe approached us with reference to the amount of produce we got from our land. Take Belgium, for instance. She had a good soil; her people were active, and had every appliance necessary for getting the most out of the land. Belgium produced 3 bushels of wheat per head of the population; the United Kingdom produced at the rate of 3½ bushels. She had only 25 cattle and 12 sheep for every 100 of the population; the United Kingdom
 203 204
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I came down to this House to fulfil my first duty—to assist in securing a House for the Gentlemen who had Motions to-night, and also, like the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, for the purpose of listening to the hon. Member for Lincoln. But I must say I did not experience that disappointment in listening to that speech which he has confessed. It appeared to me an extremely sensible speech—a speech delivered by a Gentleman who had well considered the subject, and who on all points connected with it took moderate and practical views. That speech was certainly a criticism—but a moderate, although at the same time an elaborate one—on the Bill introduced into Parliament last year on the subject of unexhausted improvements, and other points connected with the position of the farmer. Now, that Bill was one to the general scope of which I was not at all unfavourable, although there were clauses and provisions in it—which have been criticized with great power by the hon. Member
 206 207 208 bonâ fide 209
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the question of Morning Sittings will depend upon the course and state of the Public Business.
 160
 MR. CAWLEY  said, that being the case, the Amendment before the Committee ought not to be hastily withdrawn.
 MR. CAWLEY  could not accept the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as entirely satisfactory. In this case they were dealing with land occupied by woods, which bore exactly the same relation as the property of private individuals did for rating purposes. However equitable the Government grant might be, it would not give the same satisfaction in the country as would be afforded if Crown property was taxed in the same manner as that of private individuals.
 MR. MELDON , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 4, lines 26 and 27, to leave out from "except" to "morning," both inclusive, and insert "being between the hours of two of the clock in the morning and the usual hour for opening such premises," said, its purpose was to enable the magistrates to grant exemptions in the morning in favour of men attending fairs and markets. As a rule, he objected to exemptions, especially those which related to keeping open at night, as the houses were sure to be used by all others besides those in whose favour the exemptions were granted; but he thought that men who were up all night driving cattle to the fairs and markets, or in carrying commodities to them, should be enabled to obtain in the morning that refreshment which they needed, and he would extend the same indulgence to those who were engaged about the markets. As the clause stood great evil
 214
 MR. MELDON  supported the Amendment, and said that there was no question as to the capability of the magistrates to regulate the period during which the booths should be open. There was not any doubt of their fitness, but magistrates were not anxious to have such a discretion. Besides, there was not any reason why the House should not now decide that 8 o'clock was quite late enough to allow drinking on race courses. The sooner people were induced to go home the better; and certainly, so far as Ireland was concerned, order and tranquility could be much better kept at races if the people were sent off the course as soon as possible after the sport was over. There could be no second opinion about the matter, and if the Amendment was accepted the duties of the police would be very much lessened.
 MR. MONK  asked the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, Whether it is intended to continue the Morning Sittings on Tuesdays and Fridays until the end of the Session?
 MR. SEELY , in moving—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, Her Majesty's Government should, with a view to improved cultivation of the land, introduce, with as little delay as possible, a measure for giving increased security for capital to be invested in the soil by agricultural tenants," 188 189 s s 190 191
 MR. SEELY  said, he not only wished to have a law passed which should alter the present law in favour of the tenants, but likewise wished to do justice to all parties, and not to have a law which would injure any other class. With that view he was calling the attention of the House to what he considered to be the defects of the Bill that was before it last year. Another of those defects, as he conceived, occurred under Clauses 26 and 27, by which great injustice might be done to the parties who would come after the tenant for life. He was no
 192
 MR. SEELY  said, that seeing the feeling of the House, he would, after what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, ask leave to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that another objection to the Amendment, which had not been referred to, was that the Committee had passed the 2nd clause, by which the Bill was made not to apply to Scotland or Ireland. Well, if the Committee adopted the Amendment that was proposed by the hon. Baronet, the effect would be that while the National Exchequer would pay poor rates for all the Government properties in England, the people of Ireland and of Scotland would be made to pay their proportion of these poor rates for the Government property in England, without the Exchequer paying anything of the poor rates for Ireland and for Scotland. The same proposal was made last year. The attention of the Government was then directed to the
 183
 MR. HERMON  believed it was the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill to fairly assess all the property of the description referred to which was in the possession of the Crown. He trusted that when they did so both it and the present measure would be made to come into operation at the same time.
 MR. SYNAN  thought that by omitting the word "not," the clause would be rendered obscure, and suggested it should be retained.
 MR. SYNAN  was of opinion that the words "one hour after sunset" had better be inserted in the clause. By adopting eight, as proposed by his hon. Friend, they forgot that in winter that was a very late hour.
 MR. SYNAN  said, the right hon. Gentleman ought to fix an hour suitable to the season. Eight o'clock in winter was almost as bad as 10.
 MR. SYNAN : But I object to give them a discretion to keep open booths and tents until 10 o'clock at night.
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  asked the Postmaster General, What Reports, if any, have been made by Her Majesty's Board of Works respecting the condition and danger from fire of the premises in St. Paul's Churchyard and Carter Lane occupied by the Savings Bank Department (General Post Office); and, whether and when it is intended to provide a suitable building for the Department in question?
 MR. GREGORY  hoped the alteration proposed by the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not be pressed. If it were
 179
 MR. MELLY  asked the right hon. Gentleman to explain why he had altered "licensing justices," to "licensing committee," who had no power to refuse a licence without the authority of the whole county bench? Was it understood that they were to fix what were populous places without referring their decision to the whole county bench?
 MR. MORRIS  said, be bad to thank the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland for the admirable manner in which he had vindicated the rights of Galway and the character of her people. Lord Plunket bad said that history was no more than an old almanack, but the story told by the hon. Member for Donegal had not even that recommendation, inasmuch as it was wrong in facts, incorrect in statistics, and showed the hon. Gentleman's ignorance of even the geography of the county. In the face of these facts, he (Mr. Morris) felt it was his duty to vindicate the character of the electors whom he had had the honour to represent
 169
 MR. MORRIS  would reiterate what he had stated, and if the hon. Gentleman challenged him, he would ask him to retire into the Library. [ Laughter 170
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he would not press on the Bill against the feeling of the Committee; but he had been entreated, both by hon. Gentlemen opposing and supporting the Bill, to bring it on as soon as possible. He thought it might be taken without occasioning much inconvenience.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that his short answer to the hon. Member was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his Financial Statement that year, proposed that the House should deal with this question of Government property, for the present, at all events, by adding to the Estimates. That proposal having been accepted by the House, he thought the Committee would feel that it would be out of place at the end of the Session to insert an Amendment with the view of including all Government property within the purview of the Bill, especially as it was impossible to deal with all the circumstances of the case by a mere Amendment. The hon. Member was mistaken in assuming that his constituents would gain any material benefit from the rating of the Forest of Dean; the Government had for years made a contribution in respect of it, although in the hands of a private individual, it would have been exempt. Both in regard to the Forest of Dean and the New Forest, the ratepayers would receive contributions in respect of the enclosed plantations. It was manifest, however, that a proposal of the kind could only properly be submitted by the Government. With regard to real property generally, he could not agree with the view that the Bill would impose additional burdens upon it.
 MR. BRUEN  said, that, agreeing with many of the things which bad been said by his hon. Friend the Member for Donegal, the facts he had mentioned had yet not led his mind to the same conclusion. His Motion involved not only one of the Members whom the borough had a right to elect, but, if it were carried the other Member would also lose his seat; and that without any charge being made against him, and, he believed, without any cause. What he should do was to vote both against the Motion and against the Amendment. He considered his hon. Friend the Member for Donegal had made out a strong case for the House expressing its disapproval of what had taken place, and he thought that as a mark of that disapproval the issue of the Writ should be for a time suspended.
 MR. FAWCETT  wished to know whether the plan of having a rate from Government property was to be a temporary or a permanent one. If it were intended to make such contributions permanent, nothing, in his opinion, could be more inconvenient. The object of that rating Bill was as far as possible to abolish exemptions, and he could not understand why all exemptions in favour of Government property should not be abolished, making every allowance between different kinds of public property.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he felt bound to appeal to his hon. Friend the Member for Lincoln, after the speech just delivered by the Prime Minister, not to divide. Considering the difference of opinion expressed even by the supporters of the Motion that night, they could scarcely expect anything more from the right hon. Gentleman than he had said. Most great reforms had been heralded by voting in favour of abstract Resolutions; but when they were brought forward, and voted upon in order to herald some great reform, those who supported them were generally agreed in their opinions. That debate showed that public opinion was not sufficiently advanced for there to be an agreement on that question. The right hon. Gentleman had, however, recognized the justice and the importance of giving the tenant compensation for unexhausted improvements, and the most advanced and earnest reformer on the subject of tenant-right was a Gentleman, now a Member of the Government, and one in whom the Prime Minister had expressed great confidence.
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON  thought the hon. Gentleman misunderstood the case with regard to the licensing committee. There was no appeal from their decision. They were appointed by the quarter session to deal with those cases sent up to them from the petty session of their own district. It was thought that the licensing committee who represented those who were most conversant with the licensing subject, would be a fitter body to deal with the setting out of the boundaries than the local justices, who might be subject to local influences.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, the Committee had reported as to the existence of bribery and corruption on both sides, but that there was not any proof of agency as against the sitting Members.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN , as Chairman of the Committee which tried the Galway Borough Election Petition in 1866, said, that the evidence on that occasion showed that organized and systematic corruption had prevailed in that borough, and it was a most extraordinary circumstance that that evidence was precisely the same as that which had been brought before the Commissioners in 1857. The same names cropped up on each occasion, showing that the same practices had been conducted by the same parties. Immediately after the Committee, over which be had had the honour of presiding, had presented their Report, the then Attorney General, Sir Roundell Palmer, asked him why he had not recommended the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the corrupt practices which it was shown had existed in the borough of Galway. His answer was that, under ordinary circumstances, it would have been his duty to do so; but as the evidence was sure to be precisely the same as that taken by the Commission of 1857, and feeling that a Commission, if appointed, would be obliged to accept that evidence, and therefore make a similar Report as its predecessor bad done, he was unwilling to put the country to the expense of £6,000, which was the average cost of such inquiries. He now regretted that be had not taken the course suggested to him by Sir Roundell
 168
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  seconded the Amendment,
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the case was one almost without precedent—certainly without precedent in his experience of the House. His hon. Friend the Member for Scarborough (Sir Harcourt Johnstone) had made a Motion of the most important character, and no Minister had risen to speak on the very necessary Amendment which had thus been moved, and upon which the division had been taken. It appeared to him that under the circumstances it was necessary that the House should know exactly how they stood with respect to the question, and in order that they might have an opportunity of reconsidering it, he would
 174 175 "Provided that no urban sanitary district, whether including such adjoining houses or not, hall be deemed a town unless it contains one thousand inhabitants."
 MR. BUTT  said, the original Act had nothing to do with fairs or races, but to enable persons attending public dinners to remain until 10 o'clock at night, which was certainly an early hour.
 MR. BUTT , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 4, line 16, to omit the words "(one of such justices being a resident magistrate)," said, that if the words were retained in the clause, it would be making an invidious distinction between the ordinary country and borough magistrates and the stipendiary magistrates, who were the paid officers of the Government. Besides, be wished to strike a blow at the spirit of centralization, which was placing the management of all country affairs in the bands of the officials in Dublin Castle.
 MR. J. W. BARCLAY  said, when he saw on the Notice Paper the Motion proposed by the hon. Member for Lincoln, he was possessed with a strong-feeling of gratitude towards the hon. Member for proposing to bring this important question under the attention of the House. He could not, therefore, very well express the disappointment with which he had listened to the hon. Member's speech, for he entirely failed to gather what the hon. Member proposed as the real object or outcome of his proposals. If the landlords were as enlightened, just, and honourable as the hon. Member represented; and if, on the other hand, farmers were as intelligent, shrewd, and independent, he did not see that there was any occasion for the interference of the House in the matter. There was nothing to prevent farmers from mating such contracts as they pleased for permanent improvements. There was nothing which would prevent the farmer and his landlord agreeing as to permanent improvements, or even for the temporary improvements. The hon. Gentleman referred to Lincolnshire; but there the custom was that the incoming and outgoing tenants agreed between themselves as to the amount to be paid for improvements, and the landlord had nothing whatever to do with it. The basis on which legislation should be founded was, that it was just and equitable, and to the interest of landlords and tenants, and of the public generally, that tenant-farmers should be compensated at the the termination of their holdings for permanent improvements made during their occupation. The question of details was one with regard to which there might well be differences of opinion among men who were practically acquainted with the subject. The greater part of the hon. Gentleman's speech was a criticism of the Bill of the hon. Member for South Norfolk (Mr. Clare Read), which was introduced last Session, and he thought there was considerable inconvenience in discussing now the details of a measure which was not immediately before them. He was not going to imitate the hon. Gentleman; but he would, however, remark that one object of true Liberalism was to secure to everyone the produce of his labour, and if any Liberalism asserted that landlords, or any other class, should have power to take a tenant's improvement
 198 199 s s d s d 200 d d 201 202
 MR. BULWER  wished before the House passed from the subject to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary to the system under which Acts of Parliament were at present drawn. When it was proposed substantially to alter an Act of Parliament, the best course would be to repeal the Act altogether, and to re-enact it as altered. If this was too heroic a course to adopt, at all events, single sections might be so dealt with. Much of the present Bill was almost unintelligible, especially Section 9; and if ever there was a Bill which required to be drawn so that he who ran might read, it was this. He really thought, also, that the gentleman who drew these Bills, should also, as much as possible, keep clear of meaningless verbiage.
 MR. STANSFELD  agreed with the view of the right hon. Gentleman that the Bill would not impose any additional charge upon real property generally. It would include within the rating area certain kinds of real property which were not previously included, but it would not touch the amount of the rates which were to be levied. On another point he was unable to agree with the right hon. Gentleman. If any hon. Member wished to raise the question, in order to secure the rateability of Government property, the Committee stage of the present Bill was surely the proper point at which to bring the matter forward. A very satisfactory solution of the question would, in one point of view, be to fix the value of Government property by arbitration or by means of a judicial decision, and then to rate it accordingly. While he believed that the most satisfactory solution of the matter would
 182
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the Amendment before the House did not in any way raise the question of the propriety of rating Government property. He therefore saw no reason for adopting an Amendment which would not add to the force of the clause as it stood in the Bill. As far as the language in the Bill at present went, it was equivalent to "all," and a division upon the Amendment would be a division upon nothing.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the clause would be quite as effective without the Amendment as with it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  hoped his hon. Friend who had just sat down would excuse him, if he said that he had entirely failed in the course of his able statement to lay before the House any adequate reasons why the issue of a New Writ for Galway should be refused. The hon. Gentleman had, he thought, somewhat confused the allegations which were contained in the Petition against the return of the late Member for that borough, and the reasons which were given in the judgment of the learned Judge by whom that Petition had been tried. The petitioner rested his case on three distinct grounds, the first of which was the interference of the Roman Catholic Bishop of the diocese, whose name, it was contended, having been mentioned in the Schedule of Mr. Justice Keogh's Report, necessarily disqualified any candidate in whose case he filled the position of agent. Now, upon that ground, the finding of the learned Judge was against the petitioner. The second ground alleged by him was that religious influence had been exercised at the election, or in other words, that the Roman Catholic clergy had made use of their position as ecclesiastics to operate on the minds of the voters by bringing
 166 167
 THE ATTOENEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the clause merely meant this, that these places should not be opened until "one hour
 212
 MR. DUNBAR  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Irish Law Officers have as yet reported on the Memorial of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland, praying for a supplemental Charter; and, whether he will lay their Report before this House, so as to give sufficient time for investigation and discussion before any new Charter is granted?
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  supported the Amendment, thinking it absolutely necessary that people who attended fairs and markets should have the means of refreshing themselves.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, that in his county there was a large amount of Government property, and a strong feeling existed that it did not bear its fair share of the burdens which were imposed on all other property. The disadvantage of a Vote was, that it might or might not endure; whereas if they once got the question settled on an equitable basis in an Act of Parliament, they would know exactly where they stood. He would recommend the withdrawal of the Amendment.
 MR. BIGGAR  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it be the fact that it has transpired at the magisterial inquiry now being held at Kilrea, in the county of Derry, that in consequence of the three Stipendiary Magistrates who, with 110 extra police, were sent to Kilrea to preserve the peace on last Patrick's Day not having received any legal education, and not being aware of the powers placed in their hands by the law, a riot was permitted in which several persons were wounded; and, whether he is prepared to take any steps to provide that in future no person should be appointed as resident magistrate who should not have received a legal education?
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in some sense the question was confined within very narrow limits, but in another sense, it might be said to comprise the consideration of the whole of the Crown property. In his locality a road divided two properties, the one belonging to a nobleman, and the other belonging to the Crown. The nobleman would be
 184
 MR. HENLEY  complained that they were now required, without Notice, and at the fag-end of a Morning Sitting, to deal with a measure of the greatest interest.
 MR. HENLEY  said, there appeared to be some inherent difficulty in dealing with the subject. The proposition was so slippery that no one could catch hold of it. He would move that Progress be reported.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, that as he had taken great interest in the Irish Land Bill, he had thought it his duty to come down to the House that evening, not to take part in the discussion, but to help to form a House. But he had never been more disappointed than he was with the speech of the hon. Member for Lincoln. So far from that speech being in favour of the Resolution he had proposed, every sentence of it tended in an opposite direction. The hon. Member objected altogether to the Bill of the hon. Member for South Norfolk. The hon. Member did not seem to know anything of the law
 205
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING , in opposing the Amendment, said it would permit drink being sold at open-air gatherings in the North of Ireland, a proceeding he strongly objected to.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  denied that there was any evidence in the Report of the Inquiry before Mr. Justice Lawson to show there had been either riot or disturbance in Galway at the last Election; so that the charges made against the Bishop and clergy were absolutely false.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, he warmly supported the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend; but it was because he proposed to himself a very different object in carrying it than that put forward by him. It was known the stipendiary magistrates could not be ubiquitous. In the West Riding of Cork County one stipendiary magistrate was supposed to attend ten Courts of petty session, and of these he was only able to attend four, and that only once a fortnight.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he had no wish to make any invidious distinction between the country gentlemen and the resident magistrates, and he would therefore agree to the Amendment.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  stated that the clause was intended to apply to fairs and agricultural meetings, which might be held at places not licensed, and he could not see any inconvenience in allowing the powers.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  believed there would be cases where exemptions of this kind would be just as necessary as a public convenience before the hour of one in the morning as after the hour of two. The working of this clause was only meant to be exceptional. It was carefully guarded by the provision that licences of the kind should be only granted in potty session, and only for such days and hours as were named in the licence.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  explained that in inserting the words "Commissioner of Police" he had followed
 215
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, he had not yet received the Report, but he hoped he should do so in a few days. It was not possible for him at that moment to promise whether he would lay it on the Table of the House; but if he could not do so, he would be glad to give all the information in his power on the subject.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that it was not within the limits of an Answer to a Question to give a full explanation of the matter referred to; but he believed that the County of Wicklow had for some years past enjoyed a reduction in the cost of the Constabulary similar to the rest of the Counties of Ireland, in proportion to the number of its force actually serving as compared with the proper Parliamentary quota. In addition to the actual force there had been extra constables stationed in the county, for which the usual charge had been made and it would have been unfair to the other counties, if it had not. The Grand Jury, under these circumstances, were
 158
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that he was not aware that in consequence of three stipendiary magistrates of Derry not having received any legal education, any of the consequences referred to in the Question of the hon. Member had occurred. On the contrary, he believed that the magistrates who had been sent there to preserve the peace on St. Patrick's Day had done their duty well, so far as they were able, under very difficult circumstances, and
 155
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that was the third time that the hon. and gallant Member had asked him that Question. There was no official information in the Irish Office which would show whether any actions against Colonel Hillier in 1870 had been compromised. That officer, as he had already informed the hon. and gallant Member, was made a Companion of the Bath on the 24th of February, 1874, and he presumed that he was recommended for that distinction in the ordinary way by the late Government.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that on the grounds alluded to by the two hon. Members, he thought it would be better if the power to sell liquor was not extended on the occasions alluded to in the Amendment.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  moved, as an Amendment, to insert in page 3, line 1, after "hour," the words "not earlier than sunrise or," and in same line to leave out "not."
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  reminded the hon. and learned Gentleman that the whole question rested with the discretion of the magistrates.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to offer their good offices at Buenos Ayres and Rio Janeiro for an amicable settlement of the differences between the Argentine Republic and Brazil, and for the maintenance of friendship and tranquillity among the States of the Plate?
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether a competitive examination is now held in every case to determine promotions of officers in Her Majesty's Customs; and, whether any consideration other than the proficiency exhibited at such examination is regarded in granting such promotion?
 MR. M'LAGAN  said, he rose with much pleasure to second the Motion—the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) had gone so fully into the technical parts of the subject that it was unnecessary for him to touch upon those, and he should confine his remarks to some practical points to which the hon. Member had not adverted. Previous to the
 193 194 195 196
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether any actions against a Deputy Inspector General of the Royal Irish Constabulary for illegal arrests were compromised; if so, on what date the last action was so arranged; on what date the distinction of C.B. was conferred on this officer; by whom recommended to it; and if by more than one person, their several names?
 MR. ASSHETON  objected to the Motion, because it would take away the discretion which it was proposed to vest in the magistrates. Moreover, he believed that if the number were fixed at 1,000, as proposed, the inhabitants of every town with a population above that number would think themselves treated unfairly if they were not allowed to have their public-houses open till 11.
 MR. BOURKE , in reply, said, that up to the present time no application had been made by the Governments of either the Argentine Republic or Brazil to Her Majesty's Government to mediate between them; but if they were invited to mediate between those two Powers, and if circumstances showed that their mediation would be acceptable to both
 157
 MR. TENNANT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, with reference to the statement made by him as to the desirability of extending the application of the Factories (Health of Women, &c.) Bill to other manufactures, and of consolidating the Factory and Workshop Acts, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to ask this House to sanction the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into and report upon the subject, with the view to legislation during the next Session?
 MR. BRISTOWE  thought the Amendment had been brought forward inopportunely, raising as it did a question which should have been raised, if at all, on the Motion for the second reading of the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman opposite then gave his reasons for not dealing with the question under discussion in this measure, and no one seemed disposed to question the soundness of those reasons.
 MR. CONOLLY , in rising to move, as an Amendment, to leave out from the word "That," to the end of the Question, in order to add the words—
 "having regard to the decisions of the Judges appointed by this House to try the Election Petitions of the. Town of Galway Election 1874, and County of Galway 1872, having regard also to the recommendation of the Royal Commission on the Town of Galway Election Petition 1857; having regard to the joint Address of both Houses of Parliament which represented to Her Majesty in 1857 that corrupt practices have extensively prevailed at the last Election and at previous Elections for the said County of the Town of Galway, this House is of opinion that the said Town of Galway be henceforth disfranchised," 161 s 162 163 164 165
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that a competitive examination was not held in every case to determine promotion of officers in Her Majesty's Customs, for some of them were ruled by seniority combined with efficiency and good conduct; but one-half of the vacancies in London and the outports were filled up by competition amongst officers of good conduct who had served five years or upwards. Promotions which took place
 156
 MR. BEACH  thought that as the Morning Sitting had been fixed for the specific purpose of considering the Intoxicating Liquors Bill, it was unfair to hon. Members, who had not expected this Bill to come on, that it should now be proceeded with.
 MR. COGAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the fact that for some years past the County of Wicklow has been required to pay half the cost of an extra Constabulary Force, when in point of fact there was no such extra force acting for the County; whether the grand jury were not compelled to present for seventeen men for the quarter ending 30th September 1873, when there were considerably less men than the free Parliamentary quota, and that, too, after frequent remonstrances on the subject by the grand jury, and after the withdrawal by the Magistrates—specially assembled in April 1873 to consider the matter—of all authority for an extra force; whether he is aware that the Law Officers of the Crown advised the late Government that the charge for an extra force was not legally sustainable, and that the late Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in the beginning of this year communicated to the Lieutenant of the County, acting on behalf of the Magistrates and the Grand Jury, that the charge would not be again made; and, whether, under these circumstances, it is the intention of the Government to continue to claim from the ratepayers of Wicklow for the cost of an extra force which it has not?
 MR. COGAN  thought the subject ought to be cleared up, and he should be glad to hear from the Attorney General for Ireland an assurance as to the cases to which the the clause was intended to apply. If they did not have that assurance, he thought the clause ought to be postponed.
 MR. FORSYTH  hoped that the Government would accede to the Motion, because it drew a definite line between towns and small villages.
 MR. HEYGATE  thought that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Childers) had shown good cause why there should be some such limit as he had proposed, and that something between 1,000 and 2,500 would be sufficient to guard against taking in small places which it might not be desirable to include amongst those allowed to keep open till 11 o'clock.
 MR. WILLIAM JOHNSTON , in moving as an Amendment, in line 25, after "races," to insert "or open air assemblage or excursion," said, he did so on the ground that that description of licence was, at present, sold under very irregular conditions, and his object was to check the evasion of the law which occurred in consequence.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member. The 9th section was unintelligible, and many parts of the Bill were equally so. The owner of the licensed house was expected to understand all these sections, and when he came up before the Queen's Bench, the Judges would tell him that they could make nothing out of them.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, that as to the discretion of the magistrates, it was just because they would have no discretion that the Amendment had been moved. He supported the Amendment, because it would obviate the difficulty caused by the creation of urban sanitary districts into "towns" by the Local Government Board. His right hon. Friend had referred to one village in Yorkshire, near which he had lived all his life, and which had a population of only 207. The justices in that case would have no option but to regard it as a town within the meaning of the Act, and surely to give such a village the privilege of having its public-houses opened until 11 o'clock was altogether uncalled for. He really did not think-there was any substantial difference of opinion on the subject.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  considered that that was an important alteration. The original proposal was that the licensing justices should undertake the duty. They were the justices of petty session, who were conversant with the affairs of the locality, and surely, as they granted the licenses to public-houses, they were best qualified to set out the boundaries. That was the original purpose of the Government. There was then an Amendment put down to transfer that duty to what was called the licensing committee, which, as he understood it, was a committee of quarter session. The licensing committee was not, it seemed, a Court of original jurisdiction, but an Appellate Court, and in many cases knew nothing whatever about licensing; and, in fact, never granted licences at all. Matters only came before them by appeal, the party who dealt with licences being universally, in the first instance, the justices at petty session. Then, what a slur it was that they were going to pass upon the licensing justices, to say that the very men who had a discretionary power to grant licences were not the proper persons to set out and determine the boundary of any district, and to decide what were populous places. Some hon.
 172
 MR. R. SMYTH  was afraid they were getting into a state of inextricable confusion, and hoped some Member of the Government would give them an explanation.
 MR. R. SMYTH  moved, as an Amendment in page 3, line 1, to leave out "ten," and insert "eight." He said the purport of his Amendment was to prevent as much as possible drinking at races or fairs. When people went to such places, they should return home as soon as the races were over; but if tents and booths were allowed to be kept open until 10 o'clock at night, the consequence would inevitably be a great increase of drunkenness. He was informed that the object of the clause was not to accommodate the people, but gentlemen who stopped to dine, and who, by being allowed to remain until 10 o'clock at night drinking, set a very bad example to those around them.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, there was an evident misunderstanding relative to the Bill, for several hon. Members who had placed Amendments on the Paper were not in their places, and he appealed to the Government not to press the Bill any further at present.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  asked the Secretary of State for War, If he will furnish a Return of each Militia Regiment which is or has been called out for training this year, showing the numbers who marched into quarters, who were discharged as permanently or temporarily
 159
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether any silver coins other than florins are being cast at the Mint; and, if so, when an issue of shillings and sixpences may be expected?
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, that he had protested against every part of the Bill when it was before the House on the second reading. A great injustice would be continued, if the Government did not deal comprehensively with the question. The principle was what he contended for. He protested against an exemption in the case of an enormous mass of wealth which ought to contribute towards taxation as other property did. He trusted the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give some assurance that when the question of local taxation came to be dealt with, this subject should be considered.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON , in moving as an Amendment in page 1, line 20, sub-section 1, after "to," to insert "all;" and in the same line, after "land," to insert "including Crown property," said, he did it to raise the question whether Government property ought not to contribute to the local rates. Any Bill which, while bringing real property owners, to a large additional extent, under the local rates, did not, at the same time, rate Government mineral property and woods, and plantations, such as there were in the Forest of Dean, must be viewed with apprehension. It had been proposed that the Crown should pay a contribution in lieu of rating; but he thought that no voluntary contribution
 181
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, and take the discussion on the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for South Hants (Lord Henry Scott).
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE , in moving the insertion of a Proviso—
 "That no urban sanitary district whether including such adjoining houses or not should he deemed a town unless it contained 1,500 inhabitants,"
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Gentleman's observations were quite relevant. The hon. Member was calling upon the Government to introduce a Bill, and was discussing other measures that related to the question he now brought forward.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, the consumption of intoxicating liquors at such meetings led to riots, resulting in the destruction of property, and he therefore felt bound to oppose the Amendment.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  agreed with the hon. Member for Louth that the effect of keeping these houses open all night would be most demoralizing, and said that he should not object to the clause if words were inserted giving this power to the Commissioner of Police if he thought fit, provided the consent of the managers of the factories to have the places open near them was obtained.
 MR. PEASE  was anxious the Bill should go forward; but its great fault was, that it did not touch the question of Government property in the way many hon. Gentlemen hoped it would have done.
 MR. PEASE  thought there was a good deal in the argument of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the City of Oxford. The local tribunal of a potty sessional division was likely to know better the requirements of a place than the licensing committee of quarter session. Take, for instance, the North Riding of the county of York, which extended about 80 miles from east to west, and they would have justices from the borders of Westmoreland settling the boundary of a district in the neighbourhood of Scarborough. When they came to these large county divisions, it would not be so easy for the licensing committee as for the local justices to decide on the matter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that the coins being now principally cast at the Mint were half-crowns. Coin was issued from the Mint through the Bank of England, and the Bank had an ample supply of shillings and sixpences. If a demand for these coins arose, it would be at once met; but at present, as he was informed, it had not occurred.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the arrangement which he had referred to would certainly not be brought forward with the avowed intention of making it merely temporary; but at the same time it must be regarded as necessarily only temporary until some method of dealing with this difficult question upon a permanent basis could be hit upon.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not intended to bring in a Bill for the rating of Crown property, but to propose a Vote to Parliament for the purpose of making contributions in respect of Government property equivalent to what would be the amount of a rate. When he introduced his Budget, he explained that was the course they meant to take in order to avoid the many complications and difficulties which would have arisen under the Bill of last year. As to the anomaly of woods on one side of a road being rated because they belonged to a private owner, and woods of the same character on the other side of the road being exempted because they belonged to the Crown, the very same anomaly existed in regard to Crown buildings, and it was proposed to redress it by increasing the present grant. Government property had not contributed unless it amounted to about one-sixth of the parish; but it was intended to propose that in future the contribution should be given, whatever proportion the Crown property might bear to the rest of the parish.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Certainly.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  asked if the contribution would be based on the assessment of the adjoining property by the assessment committee?
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  agreed with the hon. Baronet that it would have been more satisfactory if the course pursued by the late Government had been adopted by the present, and a scheme for rating all Crown property had been submitted to the House. He hoped, however, that his hon. Friend would not press the Amendment.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT , in moving to insert in the second line of the Amendment, after the word "population," the words "not being less than 1,000," said, the insertion of those words would give the magistrates some idea of what the House intended, and would be fair both for the House and to the justices, and to the country.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  thought that the right hon. Gentleman who had moved the Amendment had not made allowance for the discretion of the magistrates. He opposed the Amendment on the ground that it would cut down the hours
 176
 MR. O'CONNER POWER  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What number of houses licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquors to be consumed on the premises were in Dublin at the time of the appointment of the present Recorder; how many there are at present; and, what has been the increase in the population of Dublin during that period?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he was aware of the difficulties which had arisen under the Act referred to by the hon. Member, but he could not undertake in the present Session to bring in an amending Bill.
 MR. STAVELEY HILL  thought that if hon. Members opposite reviewed the whole history of the measure, they would
 241 242 malâ fide 243
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that the Bill had certainly not been introduced for any purpose of satisfying the wishes of the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle, nor did he think the hon. Gentleman could expect any greater concessions, after the Bill which he so persistently brought before the House himself. Neither was the Bill brought in on the part of her Majesty's Government to satisfy the expectations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London. They had not—though once or twice in the debate they had heard to the contrary—received much help from the right hon. Gentleman and his Friends towards arriving at a satisfactory conclusion. He admitted, however, that they had no right to expect any. The right hon. Gentleman had a perfect right to lie by for a time, and when the labours of the Committee were satisfactorily concluded, come down to the House on the third reading of the Bill and find all possible fault with the House, the Bill, and himself (Mr. Cross). He
 245 246 bonâ fide bonâ fide 247 248
 MR. M. T. BASS  said, he had received representations from different societies imploring the right hon. Gentleman not to force on the Bill, and raising objections to at least 13 clauses. His own impression was, that the Bill was either too large or too small. He also thought it would be well to postpone legislation until further time had been given to the country to consider the whole of a very important and difficult question.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he thought the Bill ought not to be passed without some criticism, because he considered that the gentlemen whose salaries it was proposed to increase already received the largest amount of pay for the least amount of work of any public servants in Ireland. The total payment made for what was called the revision of valuation in 1867 was £22,000 a-year, and its cost was enormously in excess of the value of the work done, and the valuation itself was not real, valid, or  bonâ fide
 COLONEL CORBETT  said, his hon. Friend had changed his mind, he was very sorry to hear, for he was sure he had not changed it for the better, and he could add that the people of the borough as a whole remained in favour of the Bill introduced by his hon. and gallant Friend. The district did not want a single school board, and it was a district to which that system would be quite inapplicable. The great bulk of the district consisted of rural parishes, and the feeling in it was in favour, not of school boards, but of being allowed to act as other rural districts were permitted to do. Out of 13 parishes in the borough, 12 objected to the introduction of a school board.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  said, he was not surprised that the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle, with his opinions, should have moved an Amendment, but he hoped he would not press it to a Division. He thought that in the main the expression of opinion on both sides of the House would pretty much coincide with words attributed to a dignitary of the Dublin Corporation—that bad as the Bill was when it was originally brought in, it was equally worse now. The Public-house Bill would perhaps jostle up against the Bishops' Bill on its way down from the Lords; and if they had the power of speech the Bishops' Bill might take counsel with the Publicans' Bill. If it were true that there was an alliance—as had been said at the last Election—between the Church and the Beer-barrel, then the Bishops' Bill, rather nervous as to its reception in the Lower House, might ask the Licensing Bill, in what temper the House was when it left. The Licensing Bill might say, that it had been conceived by a grateful Government under the exhilarating influence of a successful Election; but that its parturition had been protracted and painful, and it had at last come forth shorn of its due proportions; that it had not expected much favour from the Opposition side of the House, but that on the other side, opinions had been by no
 244
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  assured the hon. Member that he was mistaken in supposing that any of the wealthy people of Wenlock wished to relieve themselves from contributions in support of the schools. He would also remind him that the Mayor and Common Council of the borough of Wenlock were in favour of the Bill.
 MR. MACDONALD  said, he also wished to congratulate the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on bringing forward the Bill, but joined with other hon. Members who had spoken in asking him to defer proceeding with it. He quite agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down that the question was one deserving the utmost and immediate attention; but it was a subject so great in itself that any hasty legislation, he felt assured, would be a great deal worse than delay for another year, in order to ascertain the feeling of the body of the people upon it. Reference had been made to the Reports of the Royal Commission. Many of the large societies had not even seen those Reports at all, and it would be only
 272
 MR. MUNDELLA  regretted very much that the noble Lord had given his assent to the Bill, believing that the case was anything but unique. It looked very like a job, and he was afraid there was a Whig nobleman at the bottom of it. Like the borough which he had the honour to represent the wealthiest portion of the inhabitants lived outside the municipal borough, and, like Wenlock in the present instance, would avoid any school rates whatever. He thought it was setting a bad precedent, and hoped the House would reject the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. KAVANAGH  asked the Vice President of the Council, Whether it is true that on the 3rd instant 200 oxen were landed at Thames Haven from Oporto off a vessel called the "Olga;" that several of these animals were found to be affected with foot and mouth disease, and were slaughtered in the Corporation lairs, but that the remainder of the cargo were sold for distribution over the country; and, whether he will consider how far home restrictions can be of avail in checking spread of disease while such facilities are afforded for its importation from foreign ports?
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not anticipate that such will be the case. Even, however, if the discussion of the Vote takes up a longer period than usual, there will still remain a sufficient length of time
 229
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if we conclude the consideration of the Factories Bill in Committee to-morrow evening, I propose that the Gold Coast Vote shall be taken on Thursday evening. As I am addressing the House upon the course of Business, I may mention another special subject, with regard to which I have intimated my intention to consult the convenience of the House. I allude to the subject of Home Rule in Ireland. I think, after what has occurred, it would not be conducive to public interest that there should be any further silence on this subject; and, therefore, as I understand that the course I propose will meet the convenience of hon. Gentlemen from Ireland who sit opposite me, it is my intention, with the permission of the House, to reserve the evening of to-morrow week for a discussion of the question.
 MR. DISRAELI : If we conclude the Committee on the Factories Bill tomorrow evening, Supply will be the First Order of the Day on Thursday. The Vote on account of the British Museum will come first, but I do not anticipate it will take up much of the time of the House.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir,  The Wreck Register 223 The Wreck Register
 MR. MELDON  said, he was glad that the Government did not intend to press the measure. Many of the provisions, so far as they affected Ireland, were pernicious. It was sought to reserve the decision of many points to the officials in London, and even in some cases the jurisdiction of the Irish Law Courts was ousted. Friendly societies in England had already done much harm in Ireland, and this Bill should contain a clause that no English society should be allowed to be registered in Ireland, unless it possessed property in that country, or unless means were provided for prosecuting claims against the society without coming over to England. If the precaution was not taken of remedying this oversight, great hardship and expense would be inflicted upon poor people in Ireland.
 MR. MELDON  said, he was not aware that any objection had been made by any Irish Member to the proposed addition to these salaries. The complaint was that the staff employed was too large. He objected also to the control of the matter being taken away from the grand jury.
 MR. D. PLUNKET  said, the Bill might be said to have sprung from an agitation got up within the last few years with a view of improving the condition of the Irish Civil servants. If there were one office more than another which required great improvement in the remuneration received by the Civil servants there, it was the Valuation Department. The Bill gave no more than a fair increase of salaries to the Civil servants in Ireland, and he hoped it would meet with the approval of the House.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the strong observations made by the Lord Chief Justice of Ireland on Wednesday last as to the abominable condition of the River Liffey, and to the intimation of that learned Judge that he would retire from the Bench if the nuisance should continue; and, whether Her Majesty's Government propose to take any proceedings to compel the Corporation of Dublin to cleanse the Fiver Liffey?
 MR. E. JENKINS  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he will lay upon the Table a Copy of the Report of Her Britannic Majesty's Consul on the Condition of the British-Indian Coolies in Réunion?
 MR. E. STANHOPE  said, it was very much to the credit of the English people that they were pre-eminent among European nations in their support of friendly societies, considering the small amount of support that was given to them by the State. Ever since the time of Mr. Pitt they had been casting about for the best means of giving them encouragement,
 269 270 271
 MR. SYNAN  protested against the principle which took from the local bodies in Ireland all control over local taxation, and transferred it to a central Department in Dublin as monstrous and unjustifiable. If the Bill went into Committee, would the Chief Secretary for Ireland introduce Amendments for the protection of the local bodies?
 MR. EGERTON HUBBARD  objected to being called upon to vote for the second reading of this Bill without having had a fair opportunity of reading the Reports on which it was founded. The Bill took away from people the construction and carrying on of their own societies, and for these reasons, therefore—the shortness of time allowed them to peruse the Report, the uncertainty and the difficulty of the subject—he urged upon the right hon. Gentleman the expediency of giving hon. Members the Recess in which to consult their constituents upon this most important subject. He had felt it to be necessary to send down the Reports to the secretaries of the different societies in the borough which he represented, and it was too much to expect that they could be dealt with in so short a time as had elapsed since their publication. He would beg the Government distinctly to state how they meant to deal with cattle assurance societies. The difficulties attending the proof of pleuro-pneumonia, and the insufficiency of the Government compensation for the rinderpest had, in his (Mr. Hubbard's) district, induced the farmers to take the matter entirely into their own hands. Did the Government intend to guarantee the existing friendly societies; if not, had the new registration a deeper meaning than the old? The Report told the country that the poor law was still the best friendly society—" You put nothing in, and take a
 275
 GENERAL FORESTER , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time,
 284
 MR. GOSCHEN  feared he should lay himself open to some blame in the eyes of the hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle in asking him to temper justice with mercy. None, however, could say that the hon. Baronet had not been impartially just, for he had treated with equal severity the first measure introduced on the subject, and also the second and third measures which had been substituted for the first. He asked his hon. Friend to abstain from his design of throttling at the very moment of its birth the first poor child of the Conservative Administration—this weak offspring of a strong Government. He could see in his mind the appeal that would be made by the Government. They would say "Sorely against the grain, sorely against the declarations of our own supporters at the hustings, and sorely against our own original proposals, we have succeeded to a certain extent in restricting the hours of drinking; but we have kept as near the Act of 1872 as public decency permitted." That would be, if not a just, yet a plausible appeal on the part of the Government. On the other hand, the hon. Baronet might say, "I know you gave the hours of closing to be scrambled for by the House, but even my thanks for that concession are considerably diminished by the fact that after a certain party had been successful, the Government tried to wrest that success from them." Some of the supporters of the Government had endeavoured to induce the Home Secretary to move in the direction indicated by the hon. Baronet; but why, he might ask, at the time of the Elections did they not show the same spirit? Bad, however, as the Bill was, it was not so bad as it was when it was introduced by the Government. He would advise the hon. Baronet, then, even at the expense
 237 Laughter 238 239 240 Cries of
 MR. SANDFORD  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government are willing to recognize the existing Government in Spain?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, Epping is not a Local Board District. The Guardians have become the Sanitary
 222
 MR. HOLT  was pleased with the Amendment which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to make in the clause relating to children under three years of age. He also agreed in the wisdom of the suggestion that it would be better to reprint the measure, in order that those interested in it might have an opportunity of deliberating upon the proposal.
 MR. COLMAN  said, that it was for the interest of the sound societies that legislation should be cautious and not hasty. If the Bill should be postponed till next Session, it could be well considered by all persons interested during the Recess, and if that should be done, Parliament would be able to make more rapid progress with legislation next Session.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  thought the House need not feel much alarm at that small increase of expenditure. The three Civil Service Commissioners who were under the Control of the Treasury had investigated the circumstances, and he had the most perfect confidence that if they recommended an increase of salaries it must be imperatively called for. The Bill was a decided improvement in the direction of doing justice to excellent officers, and of lightening the expense of the work done in the counties which were benefited.
 DR. LUSH  said, that according to his knowledge, there was a great desire in the country to have a more perfect acquaintance with the proposals of the right hon. Gentleman. He would point out that it was a great mistake to suppose that these societies were managed by ignorant men. That was not so, for the managers of friendly societies had a great suspicion of patronage from without, and an intense dislike for an excess of legislative regulation; but they had no objection to see a well-considered measure pass, and if the matter were allowed to stand over, they would be able to add much to the stock of information already existing upon the subject. What was wanted was a simple Bill which would enable the friendly societies to proceed more efficiently in their competition with the relieving officers and the Poor Laws. No doubt the evidence taken by the Royal Commission had opened the eyes of many persons connected with these societies as to the financial position of them; but he thought that if time were given to them, and they were not checked by any undue
 276
 DR. LUSH  asked the President of the Local Government Board, If he is now prepared to state what steps he proposes to take to remedy the bad sanitary condition of the Epping Local Board District?
 MR. ROEBUCK  believed that many of these societies were founded on rules which were very unsatisfactory, and the consequence was that few of them were solvent; and, therefore, if Parliament hastily interfered with ill-considered legislation, it would do far more mischief than it could possibly do good. The circumstances of the rules being registered under an Act of Parliament led people to suppose they were correct; but, for his own part, he believed that even the most flourishing and the best conducted of these institutions were either insolvent or in a most dangerous condition, which was likely to lead to insolvency. Under these circumstances, he entreated the right hon. Gentleman to give the House time to consider this important subject, which, he believed, hardly 10 Gentlemen in that House understood. His opinion was, that the House could not really and properly legislate on the subject without full inquiry into the whole matter, and he therefore hoped the right hon. Gentleman would submit the matter to a carefully chosen Select Committee, which might frame rules for the guidance of these societies. He further hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not prosecute the subject this Session, but that he would be prepared to proceed with it next year.
 MR. WHITWELL  said, the friendly societies throughout the country were expecting legislation, but they would be astonished if, before they had a fair opportunity of considering the Report of the Royal Commission, an Act were passed based on that Report. One great advantage of postponing the Bill until next Session would be that the circulation of the Report would act as a means of educating the members of these societies and preparing them for the legislation that was necessary. The House must remember that they could not deal with these societies as they could with factories, for they were mere voluntary associations, and might any day collapse. He did not doubt that many of these societies were sound, and placed on a legitimate basis, while others were not; but, under all the circumstances of the case, he considered that more time should be given for discussion in the country before they proceeded with any legislation.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was very glad to learn that his right hon. Friend did not propose to press that part of the Bill which prevented the insurance of children's lives, and that he intended to regulate the amount of insurance. He wished to make a few remarks, however, on the Bill generally. The matter was of such vast importance that it was difficult not to be somewhat uneasy lest, while regulating
 261 262
 MR. M. BROOKS , in explanation, said, that on Thursday next the Common Council of Dublin would meet for the purpose of asking Parliament for such increased borrowing powers as had been rendered necessary by the increased cost of work and materials, in order to carry out the cleansing of the Liffey.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  objected to the clause which gave power to the Commissioners at the end of seven years to make such alterations in the sums specified in the Schedules as they might think proper, and hoped it would be struck out of the Bill.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, the sales referred to by the hon. and learned Member are sales under the 35 & 36  Vict. 228 s
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, his attention had been called to the observations of the Lord Chief Justice of Ireland on the occasion referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he was afraid the observations were made with only too good reason. It was some years since the Corporation of Dublin obtained from
 226
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that he had not been able to obtain exact information on the subject; but he believed that when the present Recorder was appointed, the number of public-houses in Dublin was about 1,400. Since that time they had diminished to about 800, to the great benefit of all parties concerned. The population of Dublin in the year 1831, when the first Census was taken, after the appointment of the Recorder, was 203,000. At the last Census the population was 246,000.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the question of recognizing the existing Government of Spain is one which has engaged and is engaging the serious attention of Her Majesty's Government. There is no desire on the part of Her Majesty's Government to defer such recognition unnecessarily; on the contrary, it is their wish to give all moral support in their power to those who, under whatever Constitutional form, are endeavouring to maintain freedom and public order against reaction, on the one hand, and revolutionary anarchy on the other; but, considering the essentially provisional character of the present political organization of Spain, they think it better to wait until that organization shall have been placed on a more definite and permanent footing.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, no communication of the nature alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, official or otherwise, has been received at the Foreign Office.
 MR. BOURKE , in reply, said, he could not promise at that moment to lay upon the Table of the House a Copy of the Report. The Report had been referred to the Viceroy of India, and until the Foreign Office had received the Viceroy's observations upon it, it would not be expedient to lay the document upon the Table of the House.
 MR. LOWE  said, he quite concurred in much which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. The question under discussion was one of the utmost importance, affecting as it did, directly and indirectly, 8,000,000 of people and a sum of money still larger, amounting to £11,000,000. On so large a scale, indeed, were the affairs of those societies conducted that a single society, the Manchester Unity—a well-managed society—found, on investigating its accounts, that it was no less than £1,000,000 behindhand. If, therefore, anything could be done to place those societies on a better footing, it was the duty of that House to do it, and the Government which effected the object would deserve the thanks of the community. But when he had said that much, he had said everything that could be set forth on the right side of the question. It was now four years since the Registrar of Friendly Societies died, and the appointment of his successor lay with him (Mr. Lowe), and he came to the conclusion that as things then stood, the registry, which was meant as a benefit to those societies, had become a very serious injury, for the reason that it inspired the public with a confidence in the society which
 255 256 257 258 The Times 259
 MR. MELLOR (for MR. PLIMSOLL) , asked the President of the Board of Trade, If he can say how soon the Wreck Register for 1873 will be issued?
 MR. SALT  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be in too great a hurry to press the Bill. Having had some experience in establishing these societies, he had come to the conclusion that three things were necessary to found and sustain a successful society. The first requisite was registration, without which a society had no legal status; the second was that its rules and tables should be examined and certified by a competent actuary; and the third was an efficient and a regular system of audit. In regard to registration, the Government gave some help; but in regard to the other two requisites, it afforded no assistance whatever. The solution of the difficulty lay in determining how far the certificate of the actuary and a regular audit might be made as necessary to the existence of a society, as registration was under the existing law, and it was a most difficult question to solve. Parliament had been placed in possession of a valuable Report on the subject, for which they were much indebted to those who had prepared it; but that Paper had not been yet sufficiently read and circulated, especially as upon it fresh legislation must be founded. Therefore, he asked that more time might be
 260
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, that among other objects, it proposed to give power to increase the salaries of the officers of the Valuation Department, and to provide for a more satisfactory distribution of the charge for revising the valuation over the Irish counties. At present, there was no power to give any officer of the Civil Service in Ireland more than 20 s 282 s
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that with regard to insurances of infant life, he thought the Government had proposed, not to take away from the working man the means of providing for the possible expense of burying his child, which would be most unjust, and not the less unjust because it conveyed a charge against a class, which it would be almost impossible to substantiate; but—and he thought wisely—to remove the temptation to bad conduct by reducing the sum to be obtained in such cases; for there was no doubt that some persons, not parents, who were entrusted with infant life required most carefully looking after. The general tone of the discussion that evening seemed to prove that it would be almost impossible that the Bill should become law that year. The period of the Session was late; the question was a most difficult and detailed one; the Bill had not been long before the public; and nothing could be more disadvantageous than to give to the large body of persons connected with those societies, the impression that there had been hurried
 263 264
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : Will the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government be good enough to state to the House which Bill will be taken on Thursday next?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the Bill was one of considerable importance. In opposing it he did not wish to argue the question whether there should be general compulsion for the Kingdom, or whether school boards were preferable to voluntary schools. The ground on which he opposed the Bill, and begged the Vice President of the Council to pause before giving his assent to it was, because he believed that if it were passed, a considerable blow would be struck at the working of the Act of 1870—a blow which he felt sure the Government would not wish to strike at that measure. Nothing in that Act was more debated than the area of rating and the school district, and the conclusion was come to, after a great deal of discussion, that in municipal, as distinguished from Parliamentary boroughs, the municipal borough area should be the area of the school district, and in other cases the parish. He thought there ought to be the strongest possible care and most complete unity of feeling on the part of the inhabitants of a place before the House
 286
 MR. W. HOLMS  said, he must congratulate the right hon. Baronet on the able manner in which he proposed to deal with a very large and very complicated question, and for endeavouring to consolidate the laws affecting friendly societies
 265 "The insurance of infants, it was believed,
 266 "The great increase in the infant mortality of Liverpool takes place precisely within the year when infants can just come into full benefit: in the general burial societies. And we find that of the other towns referred to, all but one have large agencies of the same societies." s 267 "Do you consider that the existence of burial societies exercises any unfavourable influence upon the mortality either of infants or adults, or tends to promote parental neglect? " 268 "That the instances of child murder, where the motive of the criminal has been to obtain money from a burial society, are so few as by no means to impose upon Parliament an obligation, for the sake of public morality, to legislate specially with a view to the prevention of that crime." "Nothing short of an inquiry, coupled with compulsory power, of obtaining evidence, and with power of indemnifying witnesses against the consequences of self-incrimination, can set the question at rest."
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  said, it was desirable not to lose sight, in the consideration of this question, of the great difference which existed between friendly societies proper and burial and insurance societies. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer should see his way to pass any portion of the Bill, it would be necessary to keep that distinction clearly in view. It might be that much had been discovered with regard to burial societies; but he apprehended that whatever legislation was required in reference to those bodies, friendly societies, strictly and properly so-called, would be infinitely better if loft to their own domestic, personal, and economic regulations than they could be if interfered with too largely by Government.
 273
 MR. A. H. BROWN , in moving the rejection of the Bill, said, he regretted, as the Colleague of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, to have to submit to the House that no case had been made out for the application of exceptional legislation in the case of this borough. The Bill was not one that would meet with general approval by the inhabitants, for this was a ease where a strong feeling existed in favour of compulsory education, and it was a case where compulsion ought to be extended by establishing a school board not for any particular parish, but for the whole borough. When the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford introduced his Bill, his hon. and gallant Colleague (General Forester) desired to have Wenlock excepted from the provisions of the Act as regarded boroughs; and that was the object of this Bill. If a school board were elected for each parish in the borough, and there were 13 parishes in the borough, they could not work together with the same efficiency as if they had only one board, and he contended that one would not be so expensive as 13. He admitted that some of the parishes were a considerable distance from the centre, but he did not see how some of these small parishes
 285
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE , who had on the Paper an Amendment to the effect—
 "That it is impossible, looking to the state of Public Business, that the House should give, this year, that amount of time to the complicated question of the relations between the great Friendly Societies and the State which the importance of the subject deserves," 253 254
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Paymaster General, Whether, when he, in reply to a Question on Thursday last, gave the House to understand that the boys at Feltham were boys of a class such that the "Duke of York's Boys" could associate with them with advantage, he was aware that the boys at Feltham were boys "under detention," detained on warrant; that sixty-three discharged during the last three years had been re-convicted, and committed to prisons; that of the boys admitted into the School in 1872, one hundred and sixty-nine, and in 1873, one hundred and fifty-four, had been convicted of "more serious offences" than begging and vagrancy; and that of the boys admitted in 1873, one hundred and twenty-nine had been convicted of larceny, six of unlawful possession or of attempts to steal, and seven of being in dwelling-houses for an unlawful purpose, against only fifty convicted for vagrancy or begging?
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he is aware of the existence of any rule of the Board of Works in Ireland requiring all deeds for securing loans to tenants under the Land Act to be witnessed by the Solicitor for the Board, or his clerk, no matter where the parties may reside; and, if so, whether he is prepared to maintain a rule, involving in some cases great expense to the tenants taking advantage of the Act, as essential for the security of the Board?
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he was surprised at the opposition made by the Irish Members. The principle of the Bill was, that instead of asking the Irish local authorities to contribute as they now did, £10,400 a-year, the Government asked them to contribute £8,000 a-year, and they would take upon themselves the additional burden. He thought the Bill would prove a boon to the community in Ireland and tend to increase what was much required, the salaries of the officers in the Irish Civil Service. The increase of salary asked for on behalf of the staff engaged on this survey was not more than fair, and he believed the House could not be unwilling to grant it. He hoped the Amendment would not be pressed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thanked the hon. Member for Mid Lincolnshire (Mr. Stanhope) for his able and interesting speech, and also for having proposed a Motion and so enabled him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to make a few observations at the present stage of the Bill. He made a few observations on the second reading of the Bill in anticipation of the Amendment placed on the Paper, but not moved, by the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles W. Dilke). He was somewhat surprised that the hon. Baronet had not asked the opinion of the House upon his proposal, the view expressed in which had been supported by all the speakers in the course of the debate. The line taken by hon. Members not only did not surprise him, but
 277 pro formâ 278 279 280 281 pro formâ
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, that as the hon. Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles W. Dilke) had given Notice of an Amendment that it was inexpedient to proceed with the measure during the present Session, he would not now enter upon the question of the merits of the Bill. He was, how over, anxious to say one or two words
 249 pro formâ s 250 251 252
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE : No, Sir, on that occasion I did not go into those details. I based my answer that Feltham is an Industrial School on the Annual Report, on a letter from the Superintendent, on another letter from the Inspector of Reformatories and Industrial Schools, on the facts that the lads go direct into the Army and Navy from Feltham, and that the London School Board sends truant boys there. I may, however, say that these formidable looking offences consist chiefly of pilfering from parents by children of from 9 to 13 years of age, and that the relapses mentioned amount only to 8 per cent of the whole number discharged. The hon. Baronet has, however, not given my Answer accurately. I did not say that the Duke of York's boys might associate generally with advantage with Feltham boys. I expressed no opinion upon the point. What I gave the House to understand was, that the "Feltham eleven," being composed wholly of unconvicted boys, had a right to be deemed as respectable as its antagonists. Since the second Question appeared, I have
 225
 SIR SYDNEY WATERLOW , as a Member of the Royal Commission, expressed a hope that the Government would give the House further time to consider the subject, which affected the interests of 4,000,000 members and 32,000 societies
 274
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON , in moving, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months, said: Sir, in proposing the Amendment of which I have given Notice, I know that I act under some disadvantage, and I may perhaps be allowed to say that I am not a very suitable person to bring forward the Amendment, because I see it stated in the newspapers that I am an impracticable Utopian fanatic. But knowing that this House is almost the only assembly in the world which will patiently and candidly hear both sides of a question, I beg the House to discard all prejudiced views relating to it. This Bill, of which the third reading has just been moved, it is hoped will be an improvement on the existing law, and not a measure to injure it. I hope, however, to make out to the satisfaction of the House that the measure is injurious to the existing law, and that it embodies proposals which will not tend to the advantage of the public; and if I make that out to the satisfaction of the House, the House ought to vote against the third reading of the Bill; but if I do not succeed in making that out, then the House ought to vote for the third reading of the measure before us. I will refer the House to what happened a few years ago on the subject. Mr. Bruce, then Secretary of State for the Home Department, brought in a Bill to
 230 "For he's a jolly good fellow, Whatever the Rads may think; He has shortened the hours of work, And lengthened the hours of drink." 231 232 d 233 234 Laughter 235 236
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON : I am informed that the British Museum Vote will probably take a long time.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON : Will the Vote in Supply with regard to the Gold Coast be the First Order of the Day?
 MR. CHARLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs,
 227
 VISCOUNT SANDON : Sir, it is the fact that 200 oxen coming from Oporto were landed at Thames Haven from the  Olga Olga's 224
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, he must decline to discuss the grave matter opened up by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. A. H. Brown) as to compulsion; but if he thought there was the slightest danger of the Bill changing the principle of the Act of 1870, he would not give it his support. But the case of Wenlock was a very curious one, being that of a group of villages connected with several distinct towns, and when he found that the Mayor and Corporation supported the measure now under consideration, he thought it a strong point in its favour. There were, however, some Amendments which it was proposed to insert in Committee, very much in the sense of what the hon. Member himself would have proposed; but as for the case itself, believing it to be unique and one of great singularity, that could not in any way be quoted as a precedent, he thought it right to give his consent to the second reading.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that the issues of allowances due to Volunteer Corps, were made to the Commanding Officer jointly with three Members of a Finance Committee, appointed under rules which had been approved by Her Majesty, for the Corps to aid the Commanding Officer in the management of the finances. Under the War Office Regulations, No. 22, no account of the expenditure of the foregoing allowances was required to be rendered to that office. The Finance Committee, therefore, with the Commanding Officer, had entire control, and their mode of dealing with the Funds was not interfered with by order or advice from the War Office.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he was very glad to hear that the hon. Member, who was so well qualified to form an opinion upon the subject, was not frightened at the bugbear of foreign competition. With regard to a good many of the hon. Member's statements, he should have thought from them that the hon. Member was practically moving the rejection of the Bill now before the House. Most of his arguments might very fairly have been adduced in support of the speech made by the hon. Member (Mr. Fawcett) some little time ago. If hon. Members looked at the formidable array of manufactures which the hon. Gentleman had placed upon the Paper, and all of which he wished to include under the Act, they would see at once that it would be impossible, without due notice, to adopt his suggestion. It would be extremely unfair both to the employer and the employed in those trades, if they were to be included within the Bill without any previous notice. They had had no opportunity of knowing how the provisions of
 308 309 employés
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he regretted that it would be quite impossible for him to accede to the proposal to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. Judging by the spirit in which it had been brought forward he certainly did not think so badly of Ireland as to say that it ought to have exceptional legislation.
 313
 MR. MACARTNEY  feared that the Bill would injuriously affect the great staple trade of Ireland. Ireland was in a delicate state, and ought not to be treated so rigorously as England and Scotland.
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER , as an Irish Member, had voted against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) a few days ago, and in the division which had just been taken he had also voted with the Government. If the Irish Members pressed this Amendment, he should feel it his duty to vote against them. It had been said that the working people in Ireland had not made any objections to the hours, but the reason was because they had not the same combinations among them as prevailed in this country. The same arguments which were used against applying this legislation to Ireland had been used by English manufacturers of the United Kingdom. Belfast, which was the principal manufacturing town in Ireland, was like any English manufacturing town, and the same evils were attendant upon the long hours of work by women in both cases.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the work was not the same as that on which the operatives were usually employed, and consequently the continuous strain complained of was done away with. The matter was one on which he felt very strongly, and one on which he should ask the opinion of the Committee, with a view to maintain the clause.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not give way on that point, because those who wished him to do so were evidently in favour of 54 hours a week, instead of 56; and if he yielded as to that half-hour on Saturday, he would soon be pressed to give the 54 hours also.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he did not feel any difficulty whatever in the matter. They had reduced the working hours from 10½ to 10 on five clays of the week to lessen the strain of monotonous labour on the brain and system of the workpeople, because the last half-hour's work was found to be a bad half-hour's work, and it also caused quarrels between the masters and the men. The same reason for shortening the hours on Saturday did not exist; but, nevertheless, the Bill would fix 1 o'clock as the hour of closing on that day instead of 2. Though many employers on both sides of the House now asked him to give way on the half-hour for cleaning, he must say he had not come to his conclusion without the most serious consideration of the matter after receiving representations from both the employers and the employed. The employers of labour had expressed an almost unanimous feeling on this point; and he had understood the right hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) to have accepted the proposal of the Bill rather more fully than he had done, but he might have been mistaken. If there was a full understanding that this measure went as far as was possible with due regard to sanitary considerations, was convinced from his acquaintance with working men that they would not decline to have anything to do with the Bill. It was not in the nature of working men to act in that manner when they saw that something had been done for their advantage, and he believed
 325
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, one of the strong arguments against the extra half-hour for cleaning had been that it would interfere with the half-holiday on Saturday, and prevent persons who worked in mills going out into the country. As the Committee had practically passed the half-hour by the last division, to add half-an-hour for breakfast or for any other purpose would now practically shorten the half-holiday; and as the Amendment would do that he must resist it.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that the simple question was this—would not the Amendment, if agreed to, interfere with and shorten the half-holiday enjoyed by the workmen in factories on the Saturday.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that he had no feeling on the subject. He would consult with his right hon. Friend respecting his proposal before bringing up the Report, with a view of coming to some agreement respecting it.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he could not adopt the Amendment. He had no doubt of the excellent and most humane feeling which dictated it, but he was afraid the Amendment would be found utterly impracticable. If women were kept from the factory for 12 months after giving birth to a child they would practically cease to be factory workers altogether. He was afraid it would also tend to other social evils, such as concealment of birth, and even worse crimes.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the Amendment was one which was not open to the objections which would have been made when the earlier Factory Acts were passed, and when there was an essential difference between mills driven by water-power and by steam. Now most mills using water-power had steam machinery to make up any time that might be lost by defective water supply. He had the opportunity of consulting Inspectors of Factories and others well able to state the facts, and from their representations he was inclined to think the Amendment would lead to still more general evasion of the Act than now existed. The time had, in his opinion, come, when it might be fairly considered whether this exemption should be continued. Under the circumstances, he would consent to the omission of the clause in order to consider whether on the bringing up of the Report a new clause might not be inserted to meet the view of the hon. Member.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  quite agreed in what had fallen from his right hon. Friend. He was sure the Committee would not delegate those powers to a mere temporary Board.
 MR. W. E. FORTER  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would adhere to the clause. He entirely agreed with the noble Lord who had just spoken, and although the peculiar circumstances of Bradford might make it advisable to fix the limit at nine years, the circumstances of Bradford were not the circumstances of the manufacturing towns generally. It appeared to him a most important principle to establish that they should look forward to 10 years as the age under which children should not be allowed to go to work. In most places to which this clause would apply there were school boards enforcing compulsion up to the age of 10; where there were not, the indirect effect of this clause by itself might be injurious; and therefore it would furnish a strong argument for universal compulsion. There was now a strong temptation to parents to leave the education of their children alone until they entered a mill; especially was this the case with children coming to the towns from the surrounding villages; and if Parliament said no child should work until it was 10, Parliament ought also to say that the child which was not at work must be at school. This clause was a step in the right direction; and he hoped the Government would abide by it.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he should never have inserted such a clause as this in the Bill unless he had given the matter the fullest consideration, so that, unless extreme grounds were shown for taking a contrary course, he would stick to it; and, certainly, nothing which had been said had changed his opinion as to the wisdom of the second half of the clause, fixing the age of 10 after next year. The operation of the Education Act would make such a serious difference that they need not be afraid of any evil consequences. He was quite aware of the necessity for keeping children at school where compulsion was not in force. He admitted that there was something in the trade of Bradford by which it came about that they employed more children under 10 than any other town. In Oldham they were 10 per cent; in Leeds, 15 percent; in Nottingham,
 332
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  believed that both masters and parents were in favour of the ago being fixed at nine; but he agreed with the last speaker in thinking that there ought to be an educational test.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved in page 6, line 7, at end of clause add, as a separate paragraph:—
 "Provided that any child who previously to the commencement of the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy five, is lawfully employed in any such factory as a child under the age of nine years, and any child who previously to the commencement of the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy six, is lawfully employed in any factory as a child under the age of 10 years, may continue to he employed in such factory in like manner as if this section had not been enacted."
 MR. WILBRAHAM-EGERTON  moved in page 6, line 17, after "twelve," leave out "and under the age of thirteen." Line 19, after "silk," leave out "during two years." Line 21, at end of Clause, insert—
 "subject to such child having obtained an educational certificate as required in Clause 13 for a person of the age of thirteen and under the age of fourteen years."
 MR. STAVELEY HILL , speaking from a long experience of the silk trade, said, the employment in which these children were engaged had no more labour in it than that of a child holding a skein for its mother. Their occupation was as healthy as any occupation could possibly be. Having lived for 50 years in Staffordshire, and being well acquainted with the town of Leek, he thought his knowledge was quite as worthy of acceptance as that of the Comte de Paris, and he must say that so long as the education of the children was not interfered with by their occupation, there was no ground to fear there would be any sanitary deterioration in their condition. There was much in the Amendment to recommend it to the favourable consideration of the Home Secretary.
 MR. M. T. BASS  had been assured that the women connected with the silk trade were as much opposed to the clause as the manufacturers, and that if it were passed as it stood there would be some danger of an insurrection among them.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he did not see why the children of the particular trade referred to should be placed upon a different footing from the children employed in any other trade. The House of Commons had, he thought, resolved to make a now start in the matter of education, and he did not know why there should be an exemption in respect of the children who were engaged in the silk trade. Statistics showed that in that trade the tendency was to employ older hands.
 MR. WILBRAHAM-EGERTON  stated that after what had fallen from the Home Secretary he felt it would be useless to press his Amendment.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved, in page 6, line 21, at end of clause, to insert—
 "And (3), any child who immediately preceding the expiration of two years after the commencement of this Act is lawfully employed in the winding and throwing of raw silk as if he were a young person, may continue to be so employed in like manner as if this section had not been enacted."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the mover of the clause had thrown upon him the onus of discovering the whole machinery by which it should be carried out. That was imposing on him rather a formidable task, and he could not undertake to perform it. The question was surrounded with innumerable difficulties. It would be a new thing to impose a penalty on the woman herself, and he did not see how they could punish an employer, when it would be impossible for him to know whether a woman had been recently delivered of a child. Apart from the question of machinery, there were social reasons why they ought not to pass such a clause. They were treading on dangerous ground, and he hoped, therefore, that the Committee would reject the clause.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he hoped the clause would not be pressed, as it would be inconsistent with the working of the Act.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  tendered his thanks to Members on both sides of the House for the valuable assistance given to him in passing the Bill through Committee. His acknowledgments were especially due to the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Mundella) for withdrawing his own Bill in favour of the present
 339
 MR. SULLIVAN  moved, in page 6, after line 2, to insert a new sub-section preceding present sub-section 1. The hon. Gentleman said, his reasons for proposing this clause were that there were certain towns and boroughs in Ireland in which the licensing authority was vested solely in the recorder, without allowing the justices the slightest authority in the matter. There was not, he ventured to say, in all Britain a justice placed in such a position as the justices in Ireland were placed in this respect, and if they were gentlemen of such intelligence, character, and position as to be entitled to sit on the magisterial bench, they certainly ought to have a voice in the granting of these licences in their respective localities. Some gentlemen from Ireland had suggested to him that he should not restrict the number of justices to five, and he was, personally, willing to adopt that suggestion. He believed that in England the whole of the justices were entitled to attend the Licensing Courts, and he saw no reason why they should not do so in Ireland. This was not a party question in any shape, but one in which local information and knowledge of the wants the people were most valuable. In such places as Dublin, Belfast, Cork, and other large towns, the authority was vested entirely in the Recorder; but surely in each and every one of them could be found gentlemen of position and character against whom there could be no reproach, and he hoped that the Chief Secretary for Ireland and the Committee would agree to what he considered
 340
 MR. DICKSON  said, the Argument against the Amendment might be employed to support an aristocracy in this country. It might be that they could find a man who would govern the country better than Parliament did; but could they always count upon getting for him a successor of the same ability? The next Recorder of Dublin might share the views of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle (Sir Wilfrid Lawson).
 MR. SULLIVAN  disclaimed any intention of casting a slur upon the Recorder of the City of Dublin. There was not a Recorder in all England who was permitted to have a voice in the issuing of licences, and no English Member of that House during the debate on the Intoxicating Liquors Bill rose to propose that such power should be conferred upon Recorders in this country. By this proposal they brought an indictment against the magistracy of Ireland, for they proposed to strip them of the power which they at present possessed. He, for one, protested against the imputation of favouring drunkards, which had been hurled against the magistrates of the City of Dublin in this debate.
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not accede to the Amendment. The Workshops Act did not permit any such exemption to be made, and as the great object of the House was to assimilate the Factory Acts to the Workshops Act, there was every reason why they should not sanction this proposal. He never understood why this younger age for full-timers was originally allowed to silk mills, as the evidence taken before the Commission which preceded the earlier Acts showed that there were then more cripples in Macclesfield than in any other town of equal size. He would call the attention of the Committee to the state of the trade in the town of Leek. The industry of that town was entirely silk. In 1860 the Leek Improvement Act, which adopted all the provisions of the Workshops Act, was
 334
 LORD FREDERICK CAVENDISH  said, it was quite clear this provision was proposed solely on educational grounds, and he was quite confident the Government would next year come to Parliament and ask to raise the age in the agricultural districts from 8 to 10.
 LORD FREDERICK CAVENDISH  said, he understood that the object of the Home Secretary in fixing the age at 10 was not so much to guard the health of the children as to promote their education, and he suggested that the desired end might be gained by providing that a child might be employed at the age of nine, if he had a certificate showing that he had passed the Second—or it might be Third—Standard under the Revised Code.
 MR. PELL  said, that children under 10 years were very seldom employed in agriculture, and when they were it was with no profit to the employers, and less to the parents. If it could be shown that legislation ought to be resorted to in order to check that employment, the landlord interest would be only too ready to promote it.
 MR. MACDONALD  joined in urging the Home Secretary to re-consider his determination in regard to the extra half-hour for cleaning. Since the second reading of the Bill, he had been consulted by a large number of the working people interested in that subject, and found that they looked upon that measure as a satisfactory settlement of the question for a long time to come; but, in their opinion, this half-hour proposition was a frivolous one, which it was desirable should be excised from the Bill. At present, the most generous employers closed at 12 on Saturday, and others should not be given an advantage over them.
 MR. ALEXANDER M'ARTHUR  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, What steps have been taken by the Government of the Cape of Good Hope in regard to the question of confederation of the several Colonies and States of South Africa, and what course of action has been adopted by Her Majesty's Government on the subject; and, what action has been taken by Her Majesty's Government in reference to a Resolution adopted by the Legislative Council of the Cape of Good Hope in the Session of 1872 on the subject of the annexation of the Transkiran Territory, which Resolution his Excellency Sir Henry Barkly, Governor of that Colony, intimated on the 10th of July, 1872, to the Legislative Council he had forwarded to Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, he had heard with sorrow and with surprise that 72 Irish Members were opposed to the application of the principle of short time to the textile manufactures of Ireland. Special inquiry had been made in Ireland, and the result had been reported to that House. Owing to the failure of the cotton crop in America, the Irish linen trade had received great expansion, and the manufacturers were now glutting all the markets of the world. The manufacturers were never so prosperous. They had nothing to fear from foreign competition. In 1872 more than 2,000,000 cwt. of flax had been imported. The total value of linen imported in that year was £267,000 from all countries, while we exported to the different countries in Europe £2,131,000 worth. It would greatly tend to the prosperity of the trade to give the children time for education, and make their occupation healthy and agreeable.
 MR. MUNDELLA  also denied the existence of a compact between the Government and the masters. The employers on the other hand believed—and he might quote the letter of Mr. Hugh Mason in  The Times
 Mr. MUNDELLA  said, that it would be unnecessary for him to reply at any length to his hon. Friend who had just-sat down, because he had only repeated what he said on the second reading, and what the House had listened to on many previous occasions. His hon. Friend had asked—Why not omit the word "women" from the Bill? He would again reply that if the hon. Member had any practical acquaintance with the subject he would not ask such a question. The result would be to control the large employer in all his operations, while the small employer, who had perhaps only one weaving shed, would engage married women and keep them at work at all hours of the night. For himself, he would be no party to excluding women from the benefit of that legislation which his hon. Friend had promoted. The Factory Inspectors for the City of London stated in their last Report that no such blessing had been conferred upon women as the extension of these Acts to the trades in the City. But it was said they had enfranchised this class. What class had they enfranchised? His hon. Friend spoke on behalf of a very small number of ladies, who were well-meaning, but who had not accurate knowledge upon the subject. They had issued a pamphlet which was circulated among Members that morning, and what did they say about the enfranchisement of women? They said—
 "We venture to point to the inconsistency and cruelty of English law with regard to
 317 "Your Committee believe that the direct effect of this Bill will be to take away the penalty of marriage"— "and to teach women to prefer the greater freedom of the unmarried mother." 318
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, the Home Secretary had shown so much firmness and resolution in his defence of all the clauses of the Bill up to this time, that he hoped he would show the same firmness in supporting the remaining clauses. It was because 40 per cent of the children employed were under 10 years of age, that he insisted they should not commence work at a less age than 10. It was no credit to England that the children were worked two years earlier than in any other regulated country in Europe. This was the most important clause in the Bill, and if he was alone he would divide against beginning at a lower age than 10. It was hardly creditable to hon. Members on that side of the House to be talking of a retrograde step like that proposed by the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Ripley). With reference to the suggestion of the noble Lord (Lord Frederick Cavendish), he should approve still more strongly of requiring children to pass a given Standard before they entered a mill at all.
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, that as far as Scotland was concerned it was quite clear that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baxter) was one that would be most acceptable to the working classes in that country, for the reasons stated by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. MUNDELLA  opposed the Amendment, but thought there might be something to say in favour of that of the right hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) on the same subject.
 MR. MUNDELLA  observed that France, Switzerland, and Germany, competed with this country in the silk manufacture, and in those countries a change had taken place in their legislation, the result of which was that their children were entering the factories as half-timers, while here they were entering as full-timers. The Inspectors at Congleton showed forcibly the educational results of the system. He stated that last year only 379 children were presented in any standards at all, and of these only four were in the Sixth Standard. Out of 2,000 children, only 61 were presented above the Third Standard. That, he said, was the consequence of allowing children to enter as half-timers at 8, and as full-timers at 11. He hoped they would not disgrace themselves in the eyes of Europe by such legislation.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am anxious, so far as it is in my power, to give opportunities to every hon. Gentleman who has the care of any question of great interest to bring it forward. But my hon. Friend must feel that it is rather premature to press me for any more distinct answer to the question than that. It is only recently that the House has with much liberality confided to Her Majesty's Government an increase of opportunity for carrying on the Public Business. When that is more advanced it will be in my power to speak more distinctly upon the subject of specific Motions. I have already engaged to give a day to hon. Gentlemen opposite for the subject of Home Rule, and I must not forget that I have an engagement with the hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. Charles Lewis) with regard to the Income Tax, and another with an hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. M'Carthy) in reference to the Waste Lands of Ireland, both of whom made a great sacrifice in order to further Public Business. I cannot, therefore, give any other assurance to my hon. Friend except this—that if it is in my power, in this case, as in every other, it will be most gratifying to me to assist him.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, that the clause would interfere with the woman's right to judge what was best for herself and her child. If the House was to legislate on a matter of this kind, they ought to look also to the women of the higher and middle classes, many of whom neglected the duties that they owed to their offspring.
 MR. D. TAYLOR  said, the circumstances of England were different from those of Ireland. Whilst the Bill might be beneficial to the former, it might prove injurious to the latter, which had not several other branches of trade to fall back upon as England had in the event of any failure in one branch. He trusted that the Government would give their consideration to the subject, and that before the Bill should become law they would see fit that it should not apply to Ireland.
 MR. D. TAYLOR  said, the clause made a most invidious distinction between county and borough magistrates. Sitting in petty session in Dublin, the Recorder had no power to grant a licence without the assistance and advice of the magistrates; but the same individual,
 343
 MR. SHERLOCK  opposed the Amendment, as it would, after the turn the discussion had taken, be construed as a reflection upon the Recorder of Dublin, who had in every branch of his duty given the most entire satisfaction to all classes of the community. The Dublin magistrates were not appointed for magisterial duties, and had no magisterial experience.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that an hon. Member opposite (Mr. Mulholland), in arguing the merits of this Amendment, used this argument—that it could not possibly affect the manufacturers in Scotland, seeing that there were no manufacturers in Scotland of the same fine textures as those that were produced in Ireland. Now, he begged to say that the hon. Member had been misinformed in that respect, because there were several large works in Scotland in which fine linens, damask, and other kinds of fine linens were made, not nearly to the same extent as in Ireland, he admitted, but still there was a large and important trade in the same class of goods; and it would be most unjust, he thought, to make any distinction between the Three Kingdoms in this matter. He was willing to extend to his Irish friends every political and other privilege which they had not now, and which the people in Scotland and England enjoyed; but he thought it would ill become that House to establish a new principle in favour of Ireland which was not enjoyed in the other two Kingdoms, and which, moreover, was a very questionable privilege. It might benefit a few manufacturers in Ireland, but it certainly would not benefit the mass of the working people.
 MR. HERMON  said, that on the second reading of the Bill he endeavoured to get the half-hour struck off on Saturday afternoon. Five days in the week they had 10 hours a day, and on Saturday six hours, making 56 hours in the six days. He had an Amendment on the Paper which coincided much with that of his hon. Friend; and it would be well if they would make a little sacrifice on their part, and give rather than retain the half-hour. If it was not granted, it would cause an unsettlement
 322
 MR. SYNAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he proposes to bring in any measure to remedy the grievances complained of by the Poor Rate Collectors in Ireland, and the particulars of which a deputation from that body has laid before him?
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  said, he had many reasons for objecting to the Amendment. In the first, place, he did not see what was the difference between women and young persons. It was making two sexes out of one. His experience of babies was that the first 12 months of their existence was the very time they could best do without their mothers, for it was not until they began to walk about that they fell into the fire and ran into other dangers. Besides, he thought it a bad thing for women to be absent from active employment. In the country districts they had gardens and other means of employing their time which they were without in factory towns, so that if they were kept from the factories they were, in order to kill time, likely to take to drink. The hon. Gentleman's proposal was benevolent in theory, but bad in practice. They all knew that while the grass grew the steed starved, and so during this year of enforced idleness the woman would be without the money which she required to maintain her family, and thus the child would suffer greater harm than it possibly could from the mother being employed. Besides, there were in every factory town a number of old women—old hens he would call them—who took care of other people's chickens, and did that duty well.
 MR. E. NOEL  said, he thought this a matter in which the Irish Members, as they were denied Home Rule, ought to be allowed to legislate for themselves.
 MR. ANDERSON : Rather than adopt my Amendment, you will strike out the clause? [Mr. ASSHETON CROSS: Yes.] I am quite agreeable.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, under the 33rd clause it was quite possible for owners of water-power mills to always work their hands an hour extra; but the 34th clause was even more objectionable, for it enacted that if through flood or drought, a water-power mill was stopped during a day, the owner might work women or young persons the whole of that night to make up for the lost time. He thought that the exemption of the owners of water-power mills should be put an end to, unless some strong ground could be shown for continuing it. No strong ground could be shown. The ground alleged was that water-power mills were more liable to stoppage than steam mills; whereas the latter were more liable to stoppage from causes over which the owners had no control than water-power mills. He moved, as an Amendment, in page 4, line 13, to leave out the word "not," and insert "entirely," the effect of which would be to prevent the employment of women and young persons in the water-power mills extra hours.
 MR. ANDERSON  opposed the Amendment. He thought it desirable that all factory children should be placed upon the same footing as regarded education.
 MR. ANDERSON  moved an Amendment the effect of which was to cut off the extra half-hour for cleaning purposes on Saturdays. He remarked that if there was one point on which the Bill gave dissatisfaction it was this extra half-hour, the effect of which would be to make the working classes work for 56½ hours per week.
 MR. ANDERSON  saw no objection to permitting the men to work half-an-hour later when they preferred an hour for breakfast.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, he was not aware of any bargain. He was alluding to an earlier period when the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Mundella) introduced his 54 hours' Bill, and to the difficulty there had been in inducing the working classes to accept 56 hours. There could be no mistake as to the right hon. Gentleman's intentions. As to the unanimity of the employers, the discussion must have convinced the right hon. Gentleman that he was mistaken.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he could not congratulate the Home Secretary on the
 324
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he would only make one remark. He was not acting on behalf of any party. He knew nothing whatever of the pamphlet which had been referred to, and did not know a line of it. He believed it referred to an entirely different subject—namely, the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Salisbury (Dr. Lush) as to the working of women soon after their confinement. The argument with regard to the Bank holidays did not apply; it was necessary to pass that Act in consequence of certain commercial engagements.
 MR. FAWCETT  moved, in line 1, to leave out, the words "on women," and said, that after the omission of women from the operation of that and subsequent clauses the Bill would still apply-to children and young persons, whilst those educational provisions of the measure which it was thought desirable to pass would remain wholly untouched. There was something more than abstract reasons to be urged in favour of this Amendment. There were practical considerations worthy of the most serious attention of the Committee, and he felt that he was justified in again raising the question, because many hon. Members who agreed with him might have been deterred from voting with him on the second reading of the Bill for fear of imperilling the whole of the measure. If the Committee should accept the Amendment they would sanction a principle which would be fruitful of good in regard to other measures—the principle that an enfranchised people should be allowed to decide for themselves during what hours they should work. It was as much beyond the province of Parliament to say what the adult's hours of labour should be as it was to say what wages he should receive; and if adults were to be treated as children in one case, the logical consequence was that they might claim to be so treated in the other case. The arrangement in this Bill had been called by the Home Secretary a compromise between the manufacturers and the workmen; but he denied that it was the voluntary act of the manufacturers, who had been frightened into it by being told that if they did not accept it there might come worse behind—a still further reduction of hours. The working people had now a predominance of political power in their hands. He did not shrink from the consequences of that; but he felt that with a democratic suffrage it was important to lay down clearly and distinctly the limits and lines of Parliamentary interference. If these industrial questions were to be treated
 315 316
 MR. FAWCETT  expressed his obligations to the Home Secretary and the Government for standing firm by this clause, which would be fruitful in blessings to children and parents, not only in the factory districts, but also in other parts of the country, by the precedent it would establish.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  observed, that if the clause were passed, children engaged in the silk trade would, as he had been informed, be driven from factories which were well ventilated into small rooms, to earn, perhaps, a little more money, in the glove or some other trade.
 MR. RIPLEY  said, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. RIPLEY  moved an Amendment with the object of permitting the employment of children at the age of nine, instead of prohibiting it till the ago of ten. He observed that in and around Bradford 40 per cent of the children employed in factories were under the age of 10; and to make 10 the age at which half-timers should commence would be a serious matter both to employers and the parents of the children so employed. He trusted that before long there would be a Select Committee appointed to consider the operation of the Factory and Workshops Acts generally, and that in
 330
 MR. RIPLEY  was anxious that the week's work should be fixed at 56 hours, and as the half-hour for cleaning on Saturdays would, in most cases, become a dead letter if left in the Bill, he saw no sufficient reason why it should not be omitted.
 MR. BULWER  opposed the Amendment, as he considered Ireland had the advantage of a perfectly impartial tri-
 342
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, the Government of the Cape of Good Hope does not appear to have taken any active steps for effecting the confederation of the Colonies and States in South Africa. Her Majesty's Government are fully impressed with the great advantages which would result from such a federation. They would be prepared to promote it in any legitimate manner, and in the event of such federation would be willing to secure to the Orange Free State and to the South African Republic suitable positions and representation in it. In the absence of any evidence of a renewed desire for confederation on the part of those more immediately concerned, Her Majesty's Government have not thought that they could with advantage press the question. With regard to the Transkiran Territory, the question of annexation to the Cape has not been revived since the establishment in that Colony of responsible Government, which, of course, places all such questions on a different footing.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he was very glad to hear what had been said by the Home Secretary, that it would be impossible to enforce such a clause. What they had to consider in making laws was not only to prevent an evil, but to see that they could be carried into execution. His hon. Friend objected to the woman being subject to the penalty, and Submitted that that should fall upon the employer. That would be a great hardship. He could not conceive any species of legislation that was more open to objection than that of his hon. Friend. They should leave the question of employment of women in such cases to their own instincts, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would stand firm and resist the clause.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the Committee would have an opportunity, from what they had heard, of appreciating the unanimity of Irish opinion. The hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry) always spoke as if he and those who agreed with him, alone represented Irish opinion. But if there was any one who did represent Irish opinion on this
 320
 MR. CROSSLEY  supported the Amendment, on the ground that it was the opinion not only of manufacturers, but of the parents of the children, that they might safely go to work at 9 years of age.
 MR. W. JOHNSON  likewise supported the Amendment.
 MR. LUSH  said, he had an Amendment to the same effect on the Paper, founded on the principle that the period of the birth of a child was one of great danger, and that unnecessary risks at that time should not he encountered by mothers of families, both for their own sakes and in the interests of their infants. Something should be done to protect those who could not protect themselves. Statistics showed that whereas the ordinary average of infant mortality was 15 in the 100, it increased under the baby farming and dry-nursing of the factory districts to 60 and 70 per cent. What he suggested was, that a moderate fine should be inflicted on any woman who went to work in a factory immediately after child-bearing.
 MR. MULHOLLAND  said, not a single reason had been given nor cause assigned why there should be any interference with the hours of work in Ireland. In the whole of the Report to which the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Mundella) had alluded, there was not a single reference as regarded Ireland to too prolonged hours of work. In England flax-spinning was so small an industry that it appeared a very insufficient reason to say that, because England was dealt with in the Bill, Ireland should be also included. And the flax trade in Scotland was very much confined to the coarser kinds. Under these circumstances, a very fair case had been made out for adhering in Ireland to the present hours.
 MR. MULHOLLAND  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Mundella) was under a mistake in supposing that Irish Members objected to the whole Bill. They
 312
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, To what distance from its confluence with the Shannon will the drainage of the Suck be affected by the Government Bill for the navigation of the main stream?
 MR. RAMSAY  said, he was glad to hear the Government were determined to stick to the age of 10, and he was astonished to find so many hon. Members expressing an opinion in favour of children under 9 being employed. He supposed they were personally acquainted, as he was, with the working classes who desired that children under 9 should work, and what was their object? Nothing else than to receive money which they did not always spend wisely. He thought it was the duty of the House to protect children against any such abuse, and he looked forward to the time—and he hoped it would come soon—when no children under 12 should be allowed to earn wages unless they could pass the Sixth educational Standard.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, since he had come into that House he had lost his confidence in the Committee of Privy Council on Education, and he considered that the Board of Education in Scotland was much better fitted to be the authority on the education of factory children in Scotland. He would therefore move, as an Amendment, to leave out the words—
 "The Lords of any Committee of the Privy Council appointed by Her Majesty on education in Scotland," and to insert the words "Board of Education in Scotland."
 MR. VANCE  opposed the Amendment. He had never heard a complaint against the manner in which the Recorder of Dublin exercised the trust committed to him in this matter during the 40 years he had held his office. There had been no Petition presented from Dublin or any other place where the Recorder exercised this jurisdiction, and so long as the hon. Gentleman the Member for Louth (Mr. Sullivan) was unable to show that there had been any default, the House ought not to interfere with the present system.
 MR. WHITWELL  said, he thought some better reasons for the proposal to confer this power upon the Recorder of Dublin should have been given by the Chief Secretary.
 MR. WHITWELL  said, he thought it would be well to retain the half-hour for cleaning on Saturday in order to avoid accidents, as it was a dangerous practice to clean machinery which was in running order.
 MR. RONAYNE  said, that if the Irish linen trade had gained, the woollen trade had been ruined. If this Bill passed the linen trade would share the fate of the woollen trade. It might not be ruined, but it would be grievously injured.
 MR. FIELDEN  said, if the Government gave way with regard to Ireland, the same thing would have to be done with regard to Scotland, and at last the Bill would apply to England only. The experience of the last 20 or 30 years had proved that the restrictions imposed on factories had been beneficial to the workpeople as well as to the trade, which had never been more prosperous than during that period. At present the flax trade in the North of Ireland was, no doubt, depressed; but in legislating on a subject of this kind, were they to make an exception wherever a trade was depressed from exceptional causes? The hon. Member who had just spoken had referred to the opinion of a majority of doctors that more than 10 hours' work a day was not injurious to health; but the evidence of doctors who were not local men was that more than 10 hours' work a day was positively injurious.
 MR. FIELDEN  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman not to insist on that half-hour. The large employers would not avail themselves of it, and only those small employers who extracted all they could out of their work-people would take advantage of it.
 MR. FIELDEN  questioned the policy of going beyond 9, and if the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Ripley) would go to a division he would support the Amendment.
 MR. FIELDEN  moved, after Clause 15, to insert the following clause—
 (Women not to work in factories within four weeks after the birth of a child.) "No woman or young person shall work in any factory within four weeks after the birth of her child, and not then until she has obtained from a duly qualified medical practitioner a certificate of her fitness to return to her work; and any occupier of a factory employing any woman or young person without the production of such certificate shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds."
 MR. DOWNING  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the last Abstract of Accounts of Fines and Penal Sums accounted for under the Act of the 14 and 15 Vic., c. 90, and 21 and 22 Vic., c. 100, is that of the 30th July, for the year ending 31st December 1870; and, if so, can he state why no Returns have been made for the years 1871 and 1872, pursuant to the requirements of the first statute referred to?
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Louth (Mr. Sullivan) had not said or insinuated anything derogatory to the impartiality of Sir Frederick Shaw, who was a gentleman whom everyone respected; but still, he had now filled his high office for 42 years, and, at his time of life, could not be expected to give that attention to the matter which he formerly did. He had reduced the number of public-houses in Dublin from 1,400 to 800, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland referred to that to show how much Sir Frederick Shaw had done in the cause of temperance; but did he mean to say that the Dublin magistrates would not also act in the cause of temperance? Surely, if they were gentlemen entitled to be placed on the Commission of the Peace, they were entitled to have that confidence placed in them. He knew not of an instance of any individual having such a power entrusted to him. He had, by reducing the number of licensed houses from 1,400 to 800, created a monopoly in the liquor traffic, and that was a power which no man, however eminent his character, however great his ability, ought to have. The Amendment was a most reasonable one, and he regretted the Government should oppose it.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he agreed that the consideration of this question might be approached entirely apart from party feeling. The real question the House had to consider was, how they could secure the best licensing tribunal in Ireland. He quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Armagh (Mr. Vance) that nothing could be alleged against the manner in which Sir Frederick Shaw, the Recorder of Dublin, exercised his discretion in this matter. He was a gentleman who had at one period been an eminent Member of that House, one eminently distinguished for his talent and ability—and who had devoted great attention to this matter, and it was only on the previous day that, in answer to a Question put to him, he had had the pleasure of stating that during his tenure of office, that right hon. Gentleman had, greatly to the advantage of the cause of temperance, reduced the number of public-houses in Dublin. He did not think that associating the Dublin magis-
 341
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that the Abstract for the year 1870 was presented in July, 1872. The Abstract for 1871 was not completed in time for presentation last Session. It was ready in November last, but its presentation was deferred until the Abstract for 1872 should be ready, so that both could be presented together. The Abstract for 1871 would be presented that week, and every effort was being made to have the Abstract for 1872 complete before the end of the present Session.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : The regulation, Sir, of the waters of the Shannon contemplated under the Government Bill will directly affect the waters
 301
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that the poor rate collectors of Ireland had made representations to the Government, stating that they had grievances on three points; first, as to their duties in the Registration of Parliamentary voters; second, as to their duties in the revision of the Jury list; and thirdly, with respect to the valuation of property. He did not propose to bring in a Bill dealing with these matters, for this reason, that the first two points were under the consideration of Committees of that House, and recommendations on the subject might be made that Session; and the proper time to consider their claims in respect to the third point was when the scheme for the alteration of the valuation of property in Ireland was before the House.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, it was all very well to talk about an equal chance, but Ireland had no wish to be made the subject of such legislation as was proposed. He hoped every Irish Member would feel it due to his country to vote with his own people, and not with those who found it profitable to
 319
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  also thought a pause should be made before
 311 s s s s s s s s
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  explained that what he had stated was that 72 Irish Members, representing both sides of the House, had made representations to the Home Secretary on this subject. They were unanimous in their representations, and it was only at the eleventh hour that two hon. Members from Ireland
 321
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, that while the number of residents in Dublin had enormously increased during the last 20 years, the number of licences had been diminished. He was not prepared to state that that might not be a happy thing for society; but it must not be forgotten that it showed they were granting to the trade in Dublin a certain monopoly. The power of granting licences ought not to be entrusted to any one individual, however highly he might be spoken of in that House. If for no other reason, he should support the Amendment.
 MR. ASSHETON  moved, in page 2, after line 17, to insert—
 "(5.) A woman or young person shall not be employed within the period of 12 months after the birth of her child." A laugh 327
 MR. R. SHAW  regretted that the Home Secretary could not see his way to follow the advice of those hon. Members who represented manufacturing constituencies, and were familiar with the views of those persons most interested in the question. If the extra half-hour on Saturday were taken the Bill could not be looked upon as a settlement of the question. As the Bill now stood the operatives would be kept at the mill until 1 o'clock on Saturdays, and by the time they got home, had their dinner and got cleaned, they would find that the half holiday had practically vanished. There would be no difficulty in closing earlier, because in many of the principal districts in Yorkshire the masters had agreed to close at 12 o'clock.
 MR. TENNANT , as an English manufacturer, thought the only fair course to pursue was to place both countries on the same footing, so that all industries might have an equal chance.
 MR. TENNANT  said, he hoped the Home Secretary would adhere to the hours fixed in the Bill in justice to those employers of labour who had given their support to the measure on the strength of the hours proposed by the Government.
 MR. TENNANT  moved, in page 2, line 15, to leave out "half an hour," and insert "one o'clock in the."
 MR. TENNANT  pointed out that under the clause employers might arrange for work to commence at 7 and extend until 2 o'clock on Saturdays.
 MR. TENNANT  also trusted that the Committee would solve the difficulty, and intimated that he would not press the clause to a division.
 MR. T. A. DICKSON  said, he thought it was neither unwise nor unreasonable to ask that legislation should be stayed, and this matter allowed to go before a Select Committee. If the Bill passed in its present shape, it would be most disastrous to the manufacturing industry of the North of Ireland, but if it were delayed most important information might be elicited. If the hours were diminished, it would be impossible for the Irish manufacturers to compete with foreigners. There was no analogy between Ireland and England with respect to manufactures. There was only one branch of manufacture in Ireland, while England had many. The Irish once had a woollen trade, but that was swept away by a ruthless Act of Parliament, and was never restored. He asked the House to pause before they destined another trade in that country by another Act of Parliament. The women of Ireland were opposed to this change in the law, believing that it would ruin their occupation. He hoped that Ireland would not be sacrificed to the political necessities of England.
 MR. MELLOR  said, he thought that by adhering to that half-hour the Home Secretary would run the risk of reopening the whole question, and then they might have the workpeople again demanding 54 hours a-week instead of 56.
 MR. W. S. STANHOPE  also hoped the Home Secretary would not accept the clause.
 MR. BAXTER  moved, line 17, to add—
 "Unless in factories where one hour is allowed for breakfast on Saturdays, in which case the children, young persons or women may be employed in manufacturing process until one o'clock in the afternoon." 326
 MR. BAXTER  said, he should be very sorry to do anything to perpetuate the Board of Education in Scotland. They had far too many Boards in Edinburgh, and he hoped that many of them would be abolished. If the Amendment were adopted, it would have a tendency to perpetuate this Board.
 MR. BAXTER , speaking as an employer, repudiated the notion that was entertained by some hon. Members to the effect that this half-hour was the result of an arrangement between the masters and the Government. He most cordially supported the Amendment. The operatives in his part of the country strongly supported the Bill, but they were unanimous in their opposition to this half-hour. But he had not limited his inquiries to the operatives. He had communicated as far as possible with masters in the North, and he had not received a single opinion in favour of this half-hour. On the contrary, the
 323
 MR. BAXTER  said, that both operatives and masters in Scotland were desirous of continuing to allow a full hour for breakfast, and that could not be done if the clause was not amended.
 MR. BROCKLEHURST  said, that in the year 1833, when the Factory Act was first proposed, certain concessions and exemptions were granted to the silk trade in consequence of representations made to the Government as to its peculiar adaptability for the employment of young children and women, and the desirability of giving it encouragement. That trade had flourished for 40 years under these exemptions. Employers and employed were convinced that the time at which young persons should be allowed to commence this work should be 10 years of age, and it was due to the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary
 335
 MR. COGAN  asked the Vice President of the Council, Whether the Resolution which it has been stated the Lord President has arrived at of requiring a more stringent inspection of animals
 298
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  was afraid that this half-hour on Saturdays would cause great inconvenience in the working of the Bill. As a manufacturer himself, he would rather be without it than with it.
 MR. FORSYTH  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, considering that upwards of one thousand Petitions, containing more than three hundred thousand signatures, have been presented this Session to the House of Commons in favour of the Bill to remove the Electoral Disabilities of Women, he can hold out any expectation that an opportunity will be afforded for reading the Bill a second time in the present Session?
 MR. W. HOLMS , in moving, as an Amendment, the following Resolution:—
 "That it is expedient to include within the application of the Bill the manufactures and employments to which 'The Factory Acts Extension Act, 1864,' applies, viz., the manufacture of earthenware, except bricks and tiles not being ornamental tiles; the manufacture of lucifer matches; the manufacture of percussion caps; the manufacture of cartridges; the employment of paper staining; the employment of fustian cutting. As also the following Factories as defined by 'The Factories Acts Extension Act, 1867,' viz.:—Any blast furnace; any copper mill; any iron mill; iron foundries, copper foundries, brass foundries, and other premises or places in which the process of founding or casting any metal is carried on; any premises in which steam, water, or other mechanical power is used for moving machinery employed—( a b c a b c d e 303 304 "We have at various times urged the abolition of the different hours of work in the several trades under Government restrictions, such anomalies being the cause of very great dissatisfaction." 305 306 307 "It was a matter of grave consideration whether, by special legislation, Parliament could not simplify our educational position so as to adopt one uniform age, below which no child should be employed."
 MR. W. JOHNSTON  said, that as representing the most important manufacturing town in Ireland (Belfast), and in the interests of the working classes, he would oppose the Amendment.
 COLONEL MURE  wondered what would be thought by tyrannical and bad husbands when they read the reports of these proceedings, and found that the too early return of mothers to work was a matter which the Legislature was either unable or unwilling to deal with. Difficulties had been referred to, but he reminded the Committee that the registration of births would soon be made compulsory, and then he thought it would be possible, by means of co-operation
 338
 MR. W. SHAW  hoped sincerely that the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary would not yield to this Amendment.
 MR. W. SHAW , who had an Amendment on the Paper to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, was about to address the House, when—
 MR. W. SHAW  said, that perhaps he might be allowed to explain the reasons why he had placed his Amendment on the Paper. In his opinion, if this Bill were referred to a Select Committee, plenty of time would be given to the different trades to consider their position in respect to it, and he maintained that the Report of the Commissioners did
 310
 MR. STACPOOLE  said, the Dublin magistrates were merely ornamental, and it was time they should have something to do.
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Funds arising from the issue of Allowances due to Volunteer Corps, and ordered by Clause 73, Section 17, of the Auxiliary and Reserved Forces Circular 1873 to be made to the Commanding Officer, jointly with three Members of a Finance Committee, ought not to be placed in some Bank to the credit and on the account of such Commanding Officer and three Members of Committee, expressly as a Finance Committee, unless the Commanding Officer be directly authorized to place such Funds to his own personal credit by the said three Members; and, notwithstanding Section 22 of the said 73rd clause, has the Finance Committee so constituted by
 302
 SIR ARTHUR GUINNESS  said, the Dublin Recorder had reduced the number of licences and given such general satisfaction, that he (Sir Arthur Guinness) would oppose the Amendment.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  supported the Amendment, as he could not conceive why, if the Magistrates of Dublin were worthy their position, they should be denied this confidence in a function which was germane to their office. He thought this was an attempt on the part of the Government to keep up an unworthy distinction between Irish and English magistrates, and should certainly support the Amendment. He did not say anything against the Recorder of Dublin, but the next incumbent of that office might be a man of an enterely different character.
 MR. GOURLEY  said, the proposal seemed to be equivalent to giving the power of licensing to the Lord Chancellor. He would oppose the Amendment, as he saw no reason for altering the present system.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, the clause would be entirely unworkable, because it would be impossible for a manufacturer to know whether a woman in his employment had given birth to a child within a month.
 MR. SPEAKER  pointed out that the hon. Member could not put his Amendment, although he was entitled to speak on the Motion that he (Mr. Speaker) leave the Chair.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  argued that if it was not right to place the granting of licences in the hands of the magistrates, who were appointed by the Lord Lieutenant, with the consent and sanction of the Lord Chancellor, it was not right to give them the Commission of the Peace.
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  did not think there could be any great difficulty in enforcing the clause, and the medical certificate would, in his opinion, simplify the matter very much.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  moved, before Clause 23, to insert the following clauses—
 (Notice in writing to be given by Inspector before operation of Act.) "None of the clauses of this Act, excepting the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth, shall affect any of the factories in the last section mentioned, unless an Inspector shall give notice in writing to the owner or owners of such factory, by leaving such notice at the said factory, that the provisions of the Factory Acts 1833 to 1856 are in his opinion insufficient to ensure the health of the women, young persons, or children employed in such factory: and from and after the date mentioned in such notice (such date to be not less than one month after the giving thereof) the provisions of this Act shall come into operation in such factory, and such notice shall specify the reason or reasons on account of which the Inspector giving the same considers it necessary to enforce the provisions of this Act, and shall continue in force until revoked by the Inspector or by the Home Secretary in manner hereinafter mentioned. (Revocation of notice from Inspector.) "It shall be lawful for the Home Secretary, upon application from the owner or owners of any factory to whom such notice as in the last preceding section mentioned shall have been given, and on due cause being shown for the revocation of such notice to revoke the same accordingly."
 VISCOUNT CRICHTON (for Mr. MULHOLLAND)  moved the insertion, in page 2, line 1, after the word "factory," of the words "in Great Britain," with the view of excluding Ireland from the operation of the Bill.
 VISCOUNT SANDON : Sir, the proposed inspection of animals landed from Ireland has not been decided upon on account of any fresh outbreak of cattle disease in that country. It is not proposed to impose now restrictions on the importation of Irish cattle, but merely to ascertain that the regulations at present in force are effectually carried out. The Lord President is only acting in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee of the House of Commons, 1873, which reported as follows on this subject:—
 "That the Orders of Council relating to the transit of animals both as regards disinfection and the prevention of cruelty and suffering appear to be well adapted for these purposes, but your Committee are of opinion that such orders cannot be satisfactorily carried out without inspection from time to time by the officers of the central authority of vessels engaged in the Irish and coasting as well as in the foreign trade."
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, the action of school boards was a now feature in the whole case. In most large towns compulsory bye-laws had been adopted, and they had unanimously determined that the children should be kept at school till the age of 10. He, for one, could not speak too strongly upon this point, though if it were proposed to fix the ago of 10 at once, he should protest against the suddenness of the change. The whole current of our legislation, as illustrated by the Mines' Regulation Act,
 331
 ADMIRAL ELLIOT , while sympathizing with the object the hon. Member for Derby had in view, thought the Bill had boon introduced at a very inoppor-
 374
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, he wished to protect himself against a misconception which might arise out-of-doors if they refused to pass the second reading. The people of this country were so well informed of what passed in that House, that he personally had no fear of being misunderstood when he voted against the second reading of the Bill before the Report of the Royal Commission was presented.
 LORD ESLINGTON  said, that as one of the Royal Commissioners to whom reference had been made, he had given the subject before the House his careful and attentive consideration, and he therefore wished to say a few words upon it.
 360 361 362 363 364
 MR. A. PEEL  said, he did not wish to say anything which could by implication reflect upon the hon. Member for Derby, to whom the country in general, and the Board of Trade in particular, owed a deep debt of gratitude for having roused public attention to the subject. He must be credited with having aroused the Department itself, for he would freely admit that in times past there was a feeling of antagonism between the hon. Member and the Board of Trade, though he might say for his late Chief and himself, and those who succeeded them, that it had long ceased, and that they were only anxious to co-operate with the hon. Member in saving life and property at sea. He must, however, confess to feeling some surprise that the hon. Gentleman had chosen that particular time to bring forward the Bill, for they would, he hoped, soon have before them the final Report of the Royal Commissioners. Their preliminary Report—cautious, moderate, and prudential as it was—furnished a strong warning to the House to exercise great caution in dealing with a matter which was surrounded with great difficulties. The Bill consisted of three parts, all of which were very imperfect in detail; and beyond that it was too minute in its legislation, and such legislation always did more harm than good. It first dealt with the question of survey, recommending practically that all ships should be surveyed. He could not but think it was a strong thing to ask the House to give to a public Department the duty of surveying all the ships on the British Register. But when he looked to the means by which his hon. Friend proposed to carry out the provision, he was somewhat startled by the consequences which were presented to his
 356 357 358
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY  said, he was glad that that important subject had been so fully discussed. A number of very interesting facts had been laid before the House; but even admitting all the facts to be correct that had been urged in favour of the Bill by its supporters, there remained to be decided the question, whether the Bill would abate or aggravate the evils complained of. That was a most material question, and if the latter, and not the former, was likely to be the result, it would certainly be a serious mischief if Parliament were misled to adopt a remedy worse than the disease. It seemed to him that the advocates of the Bill assumed to themselves a monopoly of philanthropy, which he, for one, could not concede. No doubt they were actuated by humane motives, and by a desire to abate human suffering and protect human life. But every right-minded man, whatever were his opinions, and upon
 376 377 sub judice 378 379 380
 MR. NORWOOD  proceeded to remark that the House would treat the Royal Commission with much disrespect and be doing great injustice to an important interest if, without having the information which would so soon be in its possession, it undertook to legislate on the lines of the present Bill. He denied that the hon. Member for Derby had the knowledge requisite to legislate on the subject, and he warned the House not to accept a measure which would act prejudicially, and which he felt certain, would not, if carried, achieve the object of its promoters. It would, in his belief, cause more loss of life than ever, for owners would feel satisfied if they kept within the hard-and-fast line laid down, and would do things which they would not dare or presume to do at present. For that reason he trusted it would not be read a second time.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, the attitude of the shipowners in regard to the matter, as shown by the Petitions which had been presented on their behalf, was not to oppose legislation altogether, but to ask that legislation should, at any rate, be deferred until the House was in possession of the Report of the Royal Commissioners, and in a more favourable position for dealing with the subject than it was at present. The hon. Member for Derby had last Session made statements with reference to the condition of the Mercantile Marine, and to the conduct of shipowners, which were declared to be greatly exaggerated, and, in some cases, without foundation in fact; while it was asserted that the measures he proposed were calculated to increase rather than diminish the alleged evils. Under these circumstances, the House thought it desirable to institute an inquiry into the matter, and had appointed an impartial and satisfactory tribunal with full powers to investigate the whole question, and that Commission was about to make its Report, which he trusted would receive that consideration which its importance would deserve. The question at issue with regard to legislation for the Mercantile Marine was broad and simple. It must be either on the principle of the legislation of 1871 and 1873, or on that of the hon. Member for Derby. For his own part, he (Mr. Norwood) was satisfied that the wise course was to interfere as little as possible with details, but to fix direct personal responsibility on all having the management of shipping. That was in accordance with the principle of the legislation of 1871 and 1873; but it was not that of the hon. Member for Derby, whose Bill would tend to greatly hamper the trade, whilst it would not really increase, but rather diminish the respon-
 373
 MR. NORWOOD  said, he did not for a moment doubt the accuracy of the statement made by the hon. Member, but must say that in the course of 35 years' experience it was never his lot to see a foreign-going ship with her upper deck washed by the water. The Bill vested in the Board of Trade, which in the hon. Member's opinion was incompetent, the whole control of the Mercantile Marine, which amounted to something like 30,000 vessels.
 MR. D. JENKINS  admired the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Plimsoll) for the philanthropic feeling which animated him, yet could not agree with him that affairs were so bad as he imagined. Having had some experience of sailing ships and steamers, he was rather surprised at the picture which the hon. Member had drawn of our Mercantile Marine, because, judging from his own experience, he did not think it had deteriorated to the extent the hon. Gentleman would have the House believe, and he was quite sure the shipowners did not deserve the condemnation which they had received at his hands, since he commenced his crusade against them. The practices complained of by the hon. Gentleman were condemned by the shipowners themselves; but they could not support the hon. Gentleman, because his zeal and philanthropy had overstepped the bounds of reason at times. This House ought not to legislate as philanthropists, but as practical men While he thought the debate might do good in ventilating the subject, he considered the wisest course would have been for his hon. Friend to have rested satisfied with the working of the Act of 1873 until the Report of the Commission on Unseaworthy Ships had been laid upon the Table of the House. That Act was working most effectively in putting a stop to the practices of which the hon. Gentleman complained. He thought also that there would be great difficulty in carrying out the provisions in the Bill as to surveys; and in many cases under the Act of 1873, he believed that the
 359
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade seemed to have forgotten that they were asked to vote for the principle of the Bill on the second reading, for nearly all the objections the right hon. Gentleman had urged were objections that ought to be considered in Committee. In fact, all the speeches against the Bill, whether of Royal Commissioners, shipowners, or officials of the Board of Trade past and present, were speeches that avoided the principle of the Bill and dealt only with details. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Eslington) pointed out certain loopholes in the Bill; the hon. Member for Derby would be glad to have them stopped up in Committee. The noble Lord said the proposed legislation was for the minority of shipowners; well, was not nearly ail legislation for the minority? "Was it not so in the case of the Factories Bill and the Intoxicating Liquors Bill? Was the House to refrain from legislating for a minority of shipowners because the majority was highly respectable? He attached the greatest weight to the Report of the Commissioners; but the second reading of this Bill would not clash with that Report. They were in this position—on a subject on which the public felt great interest, and on which the hon. Member for Derby had deservedly and meritoriously carried public sympathy with him, they were asked, by the second reading of the Bill, merely to affirm a principle, knowing that at that period of the Session the Bill could go no further. Was it too much to ask, when every objection to the Bill was an objection to its details, and when not one Member would say he did not affirm the principle, that they should vote for the second reading of a Bill to regulate and control improper loading? If they rejected the Bill, the public out-of-doors
 381
 MR. E. J. REED  explained that he had not accused the Board of Trade of in-competency. He had merely said it required considerable improvement.
 MR. E. J. REED  said, he referred to it not as an ordinary, but as an extraordinary ease. ["Name."] He could not just then remember the name of the ship, but he would undertake to give it to his hon. Friend.
 MR. E. J. REED , in referring to the contradictory complaints made against the Bill, said that, although he did not approve of all its details, he was of opinion that its character had not been fairly represented. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Eslington) had asserted
 370 371 372
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he could assure the hon. Member for Derby that no one sympathized more cordially than himself with the object he had in view, and with the perseverance he had evinced in endeavouring to carry out those objects. But the hon. Gentleman had undertaken to deal with a very great and complicated question, and the House ought to be careful not to take any step which might drive commercial enterprise from the British to a foreign flag. They had heard a good deal of the difficulties of treating the questions of freeboard and overloading; but it appeared to him that it would be premature and possibly injurious to legislate on these matters, until they were in possession of the Report of the Royal Commission. The tendency of our present legislation was to vex and hamper the interests of the Mercantile Marine of this country, and to encourage crime and relax discipline. The want of proper discipline on mercantile ships was daily becoming greater, and there was an organized system of fraud amongst a large body of merchant seamen, with which the local magistrates were never disposed to deal as they ought to be dealt with. The interests of neither
 367
 MR. GREGORY  said, that so far from the debate having turned upon details, it had in reality hinged upon principle, and it was to that principle that the Government very properly objected. That principle was, that the Board of Trade should be held to be responsible for the seaworthiness of all ships that went to sea. He contended that the Board of Trade should not be called upon to take the responsibility of a general and compulsory inspection, especially as the Minister at the head of that Department had declined to accept the responsibility.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, few subjects possessed greater and deeper interest than that which the House was now considering, and he begged to make his acknowledgment to his noble Friend who had just spoken for the interesting speech he had delivered in relation to it, and for the valuable communications which he had made to the House on the subject. Although much that his noble Friend had put before them must obtain the concurrence of all thinking men, yet he (Mr. Samuda) took a different view of some points, and he certainly thought that the House would do well to read that Bill the second time. He did not agree that the measure would be found unworkable, although he would admit that its practical working might be beset with many of the difficulties indicated by his noble Friend, but the House had to deal with a state of facts which had been brought prominently before it for two or three Sessions; and it could not be denied that there had for years past been an increase of losses at sea enormously disproportionate to the increase of our shipping. The total losses which had not been accidental but the consequences of neglect, had gone on in an increasing ratio year by year for a considerable period. Abstracts from  The Wreck Register 365 366
 MR. PLIMSOLL , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, he wished the families of the poor shipwrecked crews who perished at sea by the negligence of others had a better advocate than he was, but he would now do, as he had always done, the best he could in their behalf. There could be no doubt whatever that a very bad state of things prevailed among a large portion of our Mercantile Marine, and that vessels were continually being sent to sea, either so overloaded that, in case of bad weather, the men had no chance of saving their lives; or so unseaworthy that they stood no chance of contending with the elements, should rough weather arise, but must inevitably go to the bottom, carrying all on board along with them. Many such ships were lost last year; but on the present occasion he should adduce in support of that allegation only
 345 346 347 348 349 Druid 350 351 352
 MR. PLIMSOLL  said, in that case, he would not make another remark. All he wanted was a division on the question.
 MR. PLIMSOLL  rose to reply, when—
 MR. T. BRASSEY  said, he could not support the second reading, although he fully appreciated the great services which the hon. Member for Derby had rendered to the Mercantile Marine of this country. He would admit that they had borne good fruit, but he was opposed to legislating on the subject too hastily. In the preliminary Report of the Royal Commissioners, facts were stated which sufficiently showed that increased vigour had been displayed by the Board of Trade in recent years with reference to the question of unseaworthy ships. Before 1872, the average number of inquiries in a year was 37; whereas, in 1872, there were 50, and in 1873, 193, an increase in number, which showed how greatly the energies of the Department had been stimulated by the earnest zeal of Mr. Plimsoll in the endeavour to lessen the loss of life at sea. Since 1871 the Board of Trade had acquired additional powers in relation to the taking of the evidence of seamen, to the detention of ships suspected of being in an unseaworthy state, and to overloading. These powers had been vigorously exercised, and had had a beneficial effect. In a few months after the Act of 1873 was passed, 245 ships suspected of being unseaworthy were surveyed, and 190 were proved to be in such a condition that the Board of Trade was justified in detaining and preventing them from going to sea. The great thing wanted, in order to give the Board of Trade all the power which the most humanitarian sympathies would desire they should possess, was an addition to the  personnel 368 369
 MR. T. E. SMITH  said, he was glad to see that the additional experience
 375
 MR. FORSYTH , in supporting the Motion for the second reading of the Bill, said, that a debt of gratitude was due to the hon. Member for Derby for the efforts he had made on behalf of British seamen, and which had already resulted in saving a great amount of human life. He had roused attention to the existence of a state of things of which before the public had not any suspicion, and he (Mr. Forsyth) hoped he would continue his efforts until they succeeded in preventing those whose business it was to go down to the great waters in ships being sacrificed as they had hitherto been. He might have been importunate and troublesome, and he might even have been guilty of some indiscretion; but he had been zealous in a good cause, and we must not allow any slight indiscretion to diminish our appreciation of his efforts to promote the safety and preserve the lives of our seamen. It required no knowledge of ships and seamanship to understand that the overloading of a vessel was to run a risk of danger, and that to send an unseaworthy vessel to sea was to doom those on board to destruction. Notwithstanding the Act of last year, there was an amount of overloading which was frightful, resulting in a loss of life which was appalling. We must not be misled by the idea that because large ships were classed at Lloyd's, and belonged to large shipowners and mercantile firms, they were not overloaded, and beyond that there was also an immense amount of overloading in coasting vessels, which were not classed at Lloyd's
 353 Volga 354 355
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that he could only speak if he wished to make any explanation to the House as to the course he proposed to take with respect to his Motion.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, that some months since the question as to the permanence of the light referred to was discussed in that House, and he then stated that it was eminently a question for hon. Members to decide for themselves. Since that time, many hon. Members had spoken to him on the subject, and they had all requested that the light should be made permanent, while he had heard no opinion expressed on the other side. He took it for granted, therefore, that such was the wish of the House. It was too late in the Session now to make the necessary alteration. During the Recess, however, he should devote his attention to the subject, and see the best means of accomplishing the object they had all in view. He could not, however, bind himself to adopt the Report alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, nor, indeed, the opinions expressed in any other.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that prior to the issuing of the Warrant of March, 1873, medical officers had been allowed to exchange, so as to obtain a fair share of foreign service. Since that period exchanges had not been encouraged, but some had been made.
 MR. GORDON  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is intended to issue a Warrant for ameliorating the conditions under which Paymasters of the Regular Forces are now serving; and, if so, when the issuing of such Warrant may be expected?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that he answered a Question with regard to paymasters a few days ago, and he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the whole subject was under consideration. There was no immediate intention to issue any warrants.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : Some time ago a formal statement was made to me as to certain matters which had taken place with regard to this burial ground, and I thought the proper course to take would be to make inquiries as to what were the facts of the case. So far as I could learn, no portion of the burial ground which is being used at all for purposes of burial has been planted with these potatoes, and the Inspector whose duty it was to look after the matter is strongly of opinion that the matter, if anything, was rather one of a nice question of Ecclesiastical Law than one for the interference of the Secretary of State. It would, therefore, be quite useless to lay the Report of the Inspector upon the Table.
 MR. OWEN LEWIS  asked the Lord Advocate, If it is true that the Parochial Board of Dumfries have refused to allow the Catholic inmates of the workhouse to attend divine service; and, if so, what justification is alleged for such interference with the rights of conscience?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : In consequence of the hon. Member's Question, I have made inquiry, and have ascertained that the Parochial Board of Dumfries have refused to allow the Catholic inmates to leave the house for the purpose of attending Divine Worship. The same rule is applied to the Protestants. The Catholic priest visits regularly the house, and administers the rites of his Church to all belonging to the Catholic faith, without any interference on the part of the local authorities. I may mention that there are only six Catholic inmates, three of whom are bed-ridden. The Parochial Board justify their action on the ground of a Regulation or Minute of the Board of Supervision, on 14th August, 1872, in which it is stated—
 "That to give every inmate a right to be absent from the poorhouse every Sunday would in many cases he subversive of discipline and proper management."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the hon. and gallant Member, in the Questions which he has put to me, has assumed that the Court of Common Pleas in England has given an interpretation to the Election Laws, so far as they affect the seating of minority candidates, different from the interpretation given to the same Laws by the Court of Common Pleas in Ireland. This may, or may not, be the case. The House is in possession of the reasons assigned by
 423
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, there is no such intention as is referred to in the Question of the hon. Member. The Abyssinian Expedition was an Indian one, and the expedition to Ashantee was not.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, the 36th Regiment will not finish its term of service in India until the winter of 1875, when it will be brought back to England.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : The Education (Scotland) Act of 1872 does not contain any provision for the remuneration of the collectors appointed by the parochial boards, who have also to collect the school rates. It is, therefore, a matter for the determination of the parochial boards whether additional remuneration should be given to their collectors in respect of the new duty put upon them by the Education Act.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, it was the intention of the Government to make Exeter a depôt centre.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY (for Mr. DISRAELI)  said, it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to make such a proposition, in the hope that it might be acceptable to the House.
 MR. GOLDSMID  rose to call the attention of the House to the contract made two years ago with Mr. Collman, the upholsterer, for the completion of the Wellington Monument, and to ask the First Commissioner of Works, whe-
 426 427
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he had, in the first place, to thank the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochester for the courtesy he had shown in postponing this Question in order to afford him time to ascertain what progress had been made with the monument, and how soon it was likely to be completed; and he was happy to say that the time which had elapsed since he entered upon his present office had not by any means been unfruitful in regard to the progress of the work. He did not wish to enter into the question of the contract entered into with Mr. Collman by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London (Mr. Lowe.) He did not know how far the term "upholsterer" described Mr. Collman; but he could say of him that he had undertaken the duty of looking after the completion of the monument solely on public grounds, for there was not a single scrap of paper in the Office over which he had the honour to preside to show that he would gain a single halfpenny by the transaction. When he (Lord Henry Lennox) acceded to his present office there remained of that monument to be completed two side groups, and above all the recumbent figure of the illustrious hero, whose achievements the monument was intended to commemorate. Neither of those parts of the works had advanced during the previous two years in any perceptible degree, and if the execution of that monument had continued to proceed at the same rate probably none of the Members of the present House of Commons would have lived to see its completion. He had, however, the honour now to inform the House that the recumbent figure of the illustrious hero had been completed, and was in the hands of the founder. The principal one of the side groups had also been all but completed, and in a very few weeks that also would be in the hands of the founder. The other of the side groups
 428
 COLONEL BERESFORD  drew attention to the discontent that prevailed among the officers of the British Museum on account of the lowness of their salaries. Last year the Trustees proposed that the salaries of these officials should be increased, but the late Government refused to entertain the proposal. In the early part of the present Session, the Prime Minister, in reply to a Question put by the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt), had stated that the Treasury were prepared to receive further communications from the Trustees on the subject. He understood that the Trustees had now suggested that only one—that immediately above the lowest—class of officers should receive an increase of salary, and he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman the cause
 447
 MR. CARTWRIGHT  advocated a rearrangement of the art collections of the Museum with a view to their more effective exhibition. The Elgin room was the only department of the Exhibition in which anything had been done in that way, and it was much to be desired that the work should be carried on in other directions. With reference to the suggestion that the salaries of the officers should be increased, he hoped it would be favourably received by the Government. It was not reasonable or just that, with increased and increasing duties, the emoluments of the gentlemen in question should be allowed to remain at the level that was fixed 40 years ago.
 ADMIRAL SIR WILLIAM EDMON-STONE  supported the Vote, and thanked the Government for the wise and sound policy they had adopted, which reflected credit on the Department which his hon. Friend the Under Secretary to the Colonies so worthily adorned. If that policy were intrusted to a fit person on the spot, and if he were not too much interfered with by the Government at home, it would materially develop the resources of the Coast, and redound to the credit of this country. The great mistake had hitherto been in making the
 464
 THE CHAIRMAN  reminded the right hon. Gentleman that the Question before the Committee was the Supplementary Vote with reference to the Gold Coast.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-QUER  said, he had no wish whatever to press it unduly. He was under the impression that the Notice Paper had been circulated; but as it appeared not to have been sent out till that day, he would agree to the Vote being postponed.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved to insert the following clause:—
 (Abolition of recovery of lost time under 7 and 8 Vic, c. 15, ss. 33 and 34.) 479 "In a factory to which this Act applies, a child, young person, or woman shall not be employed in the recovery of lost time in pursuance of the Factory Acts, 1833 to 1856, or any of them, during any hours during which they cannot he employed in pursuance of the other provisions of this Act."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, they were practically endeavouring to prevent women and children from working overtime, and he could not consent to omit the clause.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved, in page 2, lines 14 to 17, to leave out subsection (4), and insert the following subsection:—
 "(4.) A child, young person, or woman shall not on Saturday (a) If not less than one hour is allowed for meals on that day, be employed in any manufacturing process after one o'clock in the afternoon, or for any purpose whatever after half-past one o'clock in the afternoon; and (b) If less than one hour is allowed for meals on that day, be employed in any manufacturing-process after half an hour after noon, or for any purpose whatever after one o'clock in the afternoon."
 MR. MOORE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is true that the Commissioners of the Great Seal have refused to appoint two magistrates recommended by Lord Lismore as Lord Lieutenant of the county Tipperary; whether it is a fact that his Lordship has held that office for 17 years, and has never before been refused; and, whether Her Majesty's Government approve of the course pursued; and, if not, what action they propose taking in the matter?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that they would be admissible at the halfpenny rate of postage only when they were not in the form of letters.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  was also in favour of a liberal re-consideration of the salaries of the officers of the British Museum. Their duties were not the ordinary duties of mere administrators in other offices, but of men who were pledged to keep up the literary and scientific reputation of the country by using the emoluments of which they were guardians in the prosecution of independent study. Every year the Museum became more and more—not merely a depository of valuable articles in art and science also, but a focus of instruction and discovery, and a means of propagating scientific knowledge throughout the world. If the British Museum was to hold its own in comparison with Continental
 449
 MR. MUNDELLA  complained that the business in question was not upon the Paper of the House.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the intention of the Government to establish a Depôt Centre at Exeter?
 MR. SAMUELSON  said, he had heard on what he believed was good authority that the proposals made to the Royal Commission on scientific instruction, by men of the highest authority on such subjects, with a view to rendering the Natural History collection more readily available for purposes of study and instruction on its removal to South Kensington, were to be disregarded by the Trustees, who proposed arrangements which would render it impossible to use the collections in the way suggested. He hoped this would not prove to be the case, or that if no positive assurance could be given on the subject, they should, at any rate, be informed that the Government were prepared to consider the question. The mistake, if made now, would, inasmuch as it involved structural arrangements, be most difficult to remedy.
 MR. MELDON  was astonished and grieved to hear the observations which had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry), but he did think and sincerely hoped that in his speech he had not expressed his own sentiments. His hon. Friend was very ignorant, indeed, of the position of the Bar of Ireland, and he could not be acquainted with the public life of many of its members, otherwise he would not have used the ill-considered and intemperate language he did. His hon. Friend had, he thought, adopted the half-crazy utterances lately made by an eminent member of the University of Dublin. It was not for him to enter into any defence of the Bar of Ireland. Many of its members had sat in that House, and had won the respect and admiration of their Colleagues there. For his part, he had never before heard such charges
 440
 MR. D. PLUNKET  said, that after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry), it was impossible for him to remain silent. He was a member of the Bar of Ireland, although for some years he had ceased to practise, he was well acquainted with nearly every member of the Bar, and with every member of the Irish Bench, and he repudiated in the strongest possible manner the assertions which the hon. Member had made. They were wholly without foundation, and could never be justified in any individual case. The hon. Member represented the Bar of Ireland as being corrupt from the highest to the lowest of its members.
 MR. D. PLUNKET  said, he would leave it to the House to say whether he had not fairly represented the allegations of the hon. Member. It was really too bad that on every possible occasion a certain set of hon. Members opposite should drag the Irish Judges and the members of the Irish Bar before the House and represent them as being discredited and discreditable. What nonsense it was to suggest that Irish barristers were to be unlike all other men—to take no side in politics whatever. Was that the case in England? There were many members of the English Bar in that House justly proud of their profession, as he was proud of his, yet was their honour ever impeached? If any of those hon. Members happened to be raised to the Bench, could it be said of them that they were unworthy to fill that high position because they had sat in that House and had supported one or other of the two great political parties? Would such a charge be made against the present Chief Justice of the Common Pleas of England, the Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, and the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, who had been Members of the House of Commons? Among the Judges of England were some of the most distinguished, most admired, and most honoured Members who had ever sat there. Well, then, what foundation had been laid for the charges so recklessly made against the Irish Judges?
 439
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  said, that his experience at the Irish Bar had led him to a different conclusion from that at which the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) had arrived. He was far from saying that the system of selecting for the position of Judges
 435 436
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  said, he thought the House was unanimous in believing that the salaries of the officials in the Museum ought to be increased. Their duties were onerous and important, and had been constantly increasing, but since 1836 there had been no increase of salaries. As compared with officers of other Government institutions they were very inadequately remunerated. Their claims were well deserving of consideration.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether Her Majesty's Government propose to carry out the recommendations contained in the Report of the Irish Civil Service Inquiry Commissioners, signed in January last, with regard to the Dublin Metropolitan Police Magistrates; and, whether it is probable that any steps will be taken to give effect to that Report during the present Session of Parliament?
 MR. HORSMAN  insisted that the question before the Committee was Colonial and Foreign matters. ["No."] Then he could only say that the head of the Colonial Department had uttered sound opinions with regard to our Colonial policy, and he regretted that equally sound and satisfactory opinions had not been uttered by the head of the Foreign Department.
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to address himself to the general policy of the Government rather than to points of detail. He had listened with great interest to the very able and clear speech of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whose frankness he thought had loft nothing to be misunderstood as to the future policy of the Government. In that policy, as explained by his hon. Friend, he saw nothing which he could not cordially support. They were there, and they should remain and do the best they could there. They had drifted into a war—a miserable war with a miserable enemy. They had succeeded in the war, and they had deservedly heaped honours and rewards upon Sir Garnet Wolseley for what he had done. The question was, were they to remain there, or were they to withdraw? And if they remained, were they to keep a
 472 473 474
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that in the early part of the Session it was his duty to speak at length on the policy of the late Government in acquiring the forts on the Gold Coast. He stated at that time the policy of the late Government as clearly as he could, and his hon. Friend the Member for Hackney (Mr. J. Holms) must excuse him if he declined to-night to return to the subject and to follow him into questions he had attempted to re-open. He felt bound to give a general approval to the policy of the Government. Considering the past, it was impossible for the Government to propose that we should
 470 471
 MR. ANDERSON  said, the original clause could not have been rejected without Notice, as his Amendment to omit it was on the Paper nearly a fortnight before he moved it. One of the hon. Members who advocated the omission of the clause represented Dungannon (Mr. T. A. Dickson), and spoke from his own experience of the abuses perpetrated in the North of Ireland under this clause. If they gave permission to make up for lost time for six months, it was possible to keep up one hour per day in perpetuity; so that a great deal of time could be recovered that was never lost.
 MR. ANDERSON  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If his attention has been called to the following statement in "The Manchester Guardian" by its correspondent at Cape Coast Castle—
 "Bands of traders come down occasionally, chiefly to buy. Their principle article of commerce is slaves, including numbers of children kidnapped from their homes and mothers, and here they find plenty of purchasers. It is strange to read in the English papers of the rejoicings and congratulations of the English people over the strides being made towards the abolition of slavery in Eastern and Central Africa, whilst here, in a British Protectorate, and especially in Cape Coast, the seat of Government, there is a market for selling captured and kidnapped slaves and children, under the special, and, it may be said, forcible protection of the British Government;"
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, there was no wish on the part of the Opposition to protract the debate, but he thought that the question of domestic slavery on the Gold Coast was one which could not be hurried over. No doubt the policy of the Government on that Coast generally commended itself to the country; but they would get into great embarrassments if they did not at once face the question of domestic slavery in the spirit of the great precedents which had been established in this country. They should
 476
 MR. GOSCHEN  might remind the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ronayne) that the whole of the money voted was not expended.
 Mr. FAWCETT  said, the House ought not to give the Government power to allocate this large sum in any manner they liked, perhaps in favour of particular localities. He thought they ought to have details as to its proposed method of distribution.
 MR. ION HAMILTON  asked the Secretary of State for "War, Whether it is his intention to recommend Her Majesty's Government to give the same remuneration to the officers, non-commissioned
 424
 MR. BUTT  rose, according to Notice, to move—
 430 "That an humble Address he presented to Her Majesty, representing that in the opinion of this House it would he for the advantage of the administration of justice if the Irish Judges were appointed to the same extent as they are in England, upon the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor and without reference to official or political claims." 431 Lives of the Lord Chief Justices The Law Magazine 432 The Law Magazine 433
 MR. BUTT  said, he hoped the Government would see their way to adopt the higher scale of increase in salaries recommended by the Commissioners two years ago, and which did bare justice to the case, instead of the modified proposal which had now been put forward.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, the Government, in proposing the Vote, had been actuated by motives which he would briefly explain to the Committee. It was manifest that there were only two alternatives which were available to the Government with respect to the Colony in question. The one was the policy of total abandonment, and the other was that of remaining in the Colony on what he must suppose was meant to be a satisfactory footing; both of which views had recently been advocated in that House. Now, it was undoubtedly true that for many years past what he might term a half-way system had been in vogue with regard to the Gold Coast. They had adopted, in its case something like a starving policy, and had cut down the public service to the lowest possible dimensions. The result had been that that which was an apparent economy had landed the country in a vast outlay. Now, that was a policy which it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to follow in future. It was, on the contrary, their intention, with the assistance of Parliament, to pursue a policy which would efficiently meet the requirements of the public service, and enable the officers who represented Her Majesty on the Gold Coast to discharge their duties in a satisfactory manner. Among other things which the Government were resolved at once to terminate was the anomaly that the rates of pension which
 452 453 454 455 456 457 458 459
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he was willing to leave out the words referred to.
 MR. J. LOWTHER : It is true, Sir, that serious political and fiscal inconvenience arises from the existence, between the extreme points of the Gold Coast and of Lagos, of a strip of independent Native territory. No negotiations for its acquisition have been entered into or are now in contemplation, though it may hereafter be possible to effect arrangements with the Native tribes on that coast for the development and protection of trade.
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, my attention has been drawn to the paragraph in  The Manchester Guardian
 MR. STANSFELD  considered that the Government would do well, under the circumstances, to postpone the Vote.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  remarked that in viewing proposals of this character it was important to see how they would work practically if adopted. The real question before the House was whether they were willing to place the power of appointing to judicial offices in the hands of the Lord Chancellor, instead of in those of the Government of the day. In considering this, it must be remembered that the Lord Chancellor was a political officer, connected with the Government of the day, that he was appointed with a view to politics, that he changed with the Government, and with them ceased to exist in his official capacity. He was not impressed by the example of Lord Eldon, for he remembered that Sir Samuel Romilly, in his Journal, condemned his appointments as dictated by political partizanship. No doubt, in moderation the spirit of the Resolution should be carried out. For example, no man should be appointed to the Judgeship of the Landed Estates Court who had not special and peculiar qualifications for the office; and with regard to the additional Lord Justice of Appeal he boldly said that a Minister who in appointing to that office made political considerations paramount would totally fail in his duty. They could only trust to the growth of public opinion to check and control improper appointments. The Lord Chancellor might be a person influenced by family considerations, and he objected to such a proposal as that of the hon. and learned Member to make the whole Bar of Ireland dependent, as it were, upon his will and fancy. He was better as an adviser than as an arbitrary selector. It was a mistake to suppose that the appointment of Judges rested with the Lord Lieutenant. All he did was to recommend. The appointment was with the Cabinet, and he had known an instance in which an appointment was wished for in Ireland but was not given by them. He could not support the Motion, although he did not mean to say that much might not be said in reference to the degree in which politics should influence these appointments.
 MR. J. HOLMS , after complimenting the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Lowther) on the ability and clearness which characterized his statement, said, that he quite agreed with him that the alternative presented to this country was that we should either leave the Gold Coast altogether, or make our government there more efficient, and our authority more respected. He had himself on a former occasion advocated the first course, but the feeling of the House was clearly opposed to his view. Since then, however, a change appeared to have taken place in the views of several hon. Gentlemen, and he thought the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth (Mr. Hanbury) was very much in that direction. He was quite ready to admit that her Majesty's Government were placed in a difficult position when they came to consider what was the form of government they should establish on the Gold Coast. He understood, however, from a statement made by the noble Earl the Colonial Secretary in "another place," that while the circumstances of trade were not sufficient to induce us to remain on the Coast, still we could not abandon the Protectorate without a breach of the moral obligations into which we had entered with the protected tribes. He also understood it was part of the scheme of the Government that they should control in the future the importation of arms and ammunition, but if they were entirely successful in keeping out guns and gunpowder from the Protectorate he believed their object would signally fail, because any quantity of guns and gunpowder could find their way into Ashantee from the west. It was said that we might get over that difficulty by taking the French settlement into our hands; but even then guns and ammunition would pass in by the port belonging to the King of Dahomey; and the result would be that all the raw produce of Ashantee, its gold and its ivory, would in return find its way down to the King of Dahomey's port, so that, without succeeding in our object, we should lose the trade of the country; and it might happen that the Kings of Ashantee and Dahomey—for they were very friendly with each other—might unite in attacking us at the first favourable opportunity. On the subject of
 463
 MR. J. HOLMS  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If his attention has been drawn to a report that negotiations have been or are about to be entered upon by Her Majesty's Government with the King of Dahomey, for the acquisition of a narrow strip of coast which is in the possession of that Monarch; and, if so, can he state what the extent and nature of the territory is?
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked Mr. Attorney General, If his attention has been called to the difference in the interpretation of the Election Laws, in regard to the seating of minority candidates, between the English and the Irish Courts of Common Pleas, as shown by the late decision in the Launceston case and the decision in the County Galway Petition of 1872; and, if the Government intend to introduce a declaratory measure which would render the future working of the Law on this point uniform in the two countries?
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  said, he thought there was a policy on the part of successive Governments of leaving Ireland out of all strategic consideration in time of peace, and a desire to concentrate all the naval and military establishments in the South of England. Out of £6,000,000 or £7,000,000 which had lately been expended upon defensive works, only about £60,000 had been expended in Ireland.
 MR. VANCE  was of opinion that, whatever might have been said of the practice of former times, the hon. and learned Member for Limerick had altogether failed to show that the present system did not place on the Bench the most able, the most independent, and the most learned Members of the Irish
 434
 MR. RONAYNE  believed that anyone who arrived at the Bench in Ireland owed his elevation to his political opinions,
 441
 MR. RONAYNE  rose to call attention to the state of the works at the intended Dockyard at Haulbowline. It was curious, observed the hon. Gentleman, that this very Dockyard was one of the bribes held forth to the Irish people to support the Union. Mr. Cooke, then Secretary of State for Ireland, and the mouthpiece of the Government of the day, informed the Irish people that
 442 d 443
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  regretted exceedingly that this subject had been brought before the House. As a professional man for many years, he entirely concurred with the remarks of the hon. Member for Dublin University (Mr. Plunket), believing as he did that the Bar of Ireland was as honourable and independent as the Bar of England, or of any other country.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, he remembered it was stated in the Report of the Commissioners that free labour was to be employed. Of £7,000,000 which were voted to be expended on harbours, and other public works, only £260,000 was voted to be applied on the works at Haulbowline, Ireland, and that sum was reduced by £100,000. There was a very strong feeling on this subject in Ireland, and also in reference to the men who had been dismissed. He thought the Government ought to take up those works earnestly, and complete them in reasonable time.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : In reply, Sir, to the Question of the hon. Member, I beg to say that it is a fact that the Lords Commissioners of the Great Seal did refuse to appoint two gentlemen recommended by Lord Lismore; and, without wishing to cast any reflection upon the recommendation of Lord Lismore, I must say I think the Lords Commissioners were perfectly justified in the course they adopted. It is not alleged that an appointment was required for either of the districts in question. One of the gentlemen referred to was an agent not for one property but for several; and there is a rule, strictly acted on by the late Government, against appointing agents to the Commission of the Peace except under peculiar circumstances, such as that of an agent representing a largo proprietor or a Company, or there being a great necessity for a magistrate and none more suitable being in the locality. In Ireland it is the established rule not to make a dispensary medical officer a magistrate. This rule, which applies to the other gentleman, was strictly acted on by the late Government.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  in reply, said, it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to carry out the recommendations contained in the Report referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, but this could not be done without making some alteration in the existing arrangements for holding the Courts. This would necessitate the delay referred to in the Question of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He hoped, however, in the course of the present Session to bring in a Bill in order to effect the necessary alterations in the Law.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, the question under discussion was only a fragment of a very large subject: Of one thing he was certain—the whole of the judicial appointments in Ireland, from the highest to the lowest, had been, and were, the cause of the liveliest dissatisfaction. "When a question arose in Ireland as to the appointment of a barrister to the Judicial Bench, the Bar of Ireland was not regarded as the Bar of England was—namely, as defenders of the rights of the people, but was regarded as the agent of a particular Government; and men who entertained political sentiments quite opposed to those which they had expressed on the hustings when they were aspirants for Parliamentary honours were frequently appointed members of the Judicial Bench. As to such men it was impossible for him to have any confidence that they would administer the law as it ought to be administered. There was one judicial office at the disposal of the Government for every three practising barristers. He believed that there was no country in the world but Ireland, or perhaps India, in which appointments to the paid magisterial bench were made without any legal qualification in the men appointed. Until the Judges in Ireland were greatly reduced and the Chairmen of Quarter Sessions had duties cast upon them which would fully occupy their time, the Bar of Ireland would never be anything else than a political machine in the hands of the Government of the day. While the present system of judicial appointments lasted, the people of Ireland could not have confidence in the administration of justice in that country. The whole system required amendment. It would, he believed, be discussed when the Judicature Bill came before the House, on which occasion an hon. Member would lay before
 438
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, the hon. Gentleman attributed to him a statement he had never made. What he had said was that the Irish Bar were instruments in the hands of the Government.
 MR. CARTER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the fact that at his instance Dr. Holland has been sent to Wellingborough to conduct an inquiry into an alleged act of sacrilege on the part of the Burial Board of Wellingborough, such act of sacrilege being the planting with potatoes, for the purpose of cleaning the land, of a portion of the ground lately set apart for the purposes of a cemetery; and, if so, whether Dr. Holland's Report has been received and can be laid upon the Table of the House?
 MR. HANBURY  said, he wished to state the reasons which had induced him to put on the Paper the Motion which stood in his name—namely, to reduce the Vote by £10,000. In his judgment, we were bound by considerations of duty to remain on the Gold Coast, as otherwise the Ashantees would either overrun the district and offer human sacrifices within sight of Cape Coast Castle, or else they and the Fantees would drag on a remorseless war. If, however, we were bound to stay there at all, we were bound to stay there permanently; because the policy of remaining there in order ultimately to abandon the Coast caused vacillation in our counsels and produced the very difficulty it was intended to prevent. It was a very great gain that we had now got for these Settlements a thoroughly well qualified Governor, who, it might be expected, would be able to remain there; and the Government ought, as far as possible, to leave his hands unfettered, and to give him full discretion, especially with regard to the manner in which he wished to deal with the Native races. There were two systems under which we might deal with the Native races; the one being to maintain perfect neutrality between the two, and the other our own system of taking sides with one or other of them. If the latter course were maintained, we might either take the Natives under our protection and constitute a Crown colony, or we might continue that system of protection which
 460 461
 MR. HANBURY  said, he wished to support the policy of the Government as a whole in maintaining our position on the Gold Coast, and could not support the proposal that we should abandon that position. He would, therefore, withdraw his Motion, and let the sense of the House be taken on the other proposal.
 MR. LOWE  said, that it was some satisfaction to him to hear the mode in which the hon. Member (Mr. Goldsmid) had alluded to his (Mr. Lowe's) share in the transaction. He might say that he found that Mr. Stevens had undertaken the contract for less money than the work could possibly be peformed for; that he had exhausted the public money; and that he was taking private business in order to get money to carry on his contract. Mr. Stevens was in very bad health, and the work he had done was of a super-excellent quality, but it was in a state of total suspension. His (Mr. Lowe's) first view was to take the matter out of Mr. Stevens' hands and put the remainder of the work up to public competition, so that some other gentleman might finish it. He communicated with, and took the advice of Mr. Ayrton, then First Commissioner of Works, who thought the proper course would be to take the work out of Mr. Stevens' hands and put it up to public competition. He (Mr. Lowe), however, was advised by those who were well qualified to give such advice that it would not be wise to do that; that other artists of equal eminence would not consent to take the work out of Mr. Stevens' hands, and that it would consequently fall into inferior hands. Mr. Ayrton continued to hold his own view, and said that if he (Mr. Lowe) did not agree, the best thing he could do would be to take the work into his own hands and deal with it as he could. He (Mr. Lowe) thought that good advice, and therefore he took it. He communicated with Mr. Ferguson, who thought that the matter could
 429
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE , in reply, said, that no arrangements such as that to which the hon. Baronet referred could be made without an Act of Parliament, and that the proper time to state what the arrangements would be was when such a Bill was introduced.
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  said, that with regard to the subject of salaries, the Trustees had made recommendations to the Treasury, and that the Treasury had declined to raise the scale in the British Museum unless there was some general rule made applicable to
 450
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  said, that on the face of the Vote it did appear that there was a considerable diminution in the sum asked for this year, as compared with that granted last year; but that diminution was entirely owing to Supplementary Grants having been taken last year; first, for the exploration going on in Assyria; and secondly, for the purchase of that valuable collection known as the Castellani collection. The present Estimate, however, was substantially the same as those which had hitherto been voted from year to year. There was only one circumstance which he felt bound to mention in connection with the Estimate. It was, that it was possible that the Trustees might have to apply to Parliament for an additional grant, in order to make a purchase of some very valuable Roman and Greek
 446
 MR. T. E. SMITH  was sure that the general feeling of the House and the country was that, as regarded the Gold Coast, we had been the victim of circumstances, and thought it would be injurious to the character of the nation and unfair to the merchants who had invested their capital in the trade of the Coast to give up the system of protection under which they had acted, and which had so long been persevered in by England. At the same time, he considered we were laying up a stock of trouble for ourselves unless we from the very first determined to put down domestic slavery.
 MR. HANKEY  said, he had applied at the Vote Office for a copy of the Minute of the Treasury on this subject, and was informed that it could not be delivered till to-morrow morning. Under these circumstances, he put it to the Government whether they would press the Vote that evening.
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the Government intend to act on the Report of the Engineer of the Trinity House as to competition by trial of the Electric and Gas Lights on the Clock Tower, in which Report the superior advantages of the former as regards intensity and cost of illuminating power are fully stated?
 MR. WILLIAM PRICE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Why the 36th Regiment, which sailed for India in August 1863, has not been included in the Beliefs either of 1873 or 1874; and if he can state when that Regiment is likely to return to this Country?
 MR. W. SHAW  complained that Clause 10 had been struck out of the Bill without Notice, and contended that that would inflict serious injury upon the silk trade in Ireland.
 MR. STACPOOLE  asked the Secretary of State for War, If it is the fact that the Medical Officers of the Army have of late been refused the privilege they have heretofore enjoyed of being allowed to exchange, even when the exchanges proposed have been in strict conformity with the rules laid down by his Royal Highness the Field Marshal Commanding-in-Chief and the Secretary of State for War; and, if so, whether it is intended to maintain a system by which those officers are refused a privilege which has been allowed to all other
 419
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  took objection to the Bill as imperfect, and as of a nature calculated to involve this country in wars with uncivilized Powers. The object of the Bill, as he understood it, was to exercise jurisdiction over persons who were not subjects of Her Majesty, and who were not subjects of any civilized Power.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  wished to suggest to his right hon. Friend, whether some means might not be taken for making the great treasures contained within the British Museum more available to the public than was at present the case. He had long thought that if a system of lectures were instituted in connection with the organization of the British Museum, it would be of enormous value and interest to the nation at large. The gentlemen who presided over the British Museum had at their command such resources as no others in the world had. It was true that the British Museum was nominally open to the public; but that opening was, if he might use the phrase, an unintelligent opening, because people wandered in weariness and ignorance throughout the collections without having the remotest knowledge of the character and resources of that great establishment. The learning of the British Museum was written in hieroglyphics, and it was advisable that its mysteries should be translated into the vulgar tongue, so as to become intelligible to the nation at large. He understood that this might be done for an expenditure of £1,000 per annum. He ventured to throw out this suggestion for the consideration of the right hon. Member for Cambridge University and of the Prime Minister, who, amid the turmoil of politics, had never forgotten the claims of literature, of science, and of art.
 MR. WELBY  asked the Postmaster General, If he will state to the House, with special reference to invoices, orders, and similar commercial communications, what writing may, and what may not, be sent under halfpenny book-post wrappers?
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  inquired, Whether, seeing the small amount of Private Business before the House, Public Business will be proceeded with at a quarter-past four?
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  said, he had some knowledge of Ireland, and if there was any place where Dockyard accommodation was more wanted than another, it was Queenstown, which was a great commercial station. The hon. Gentleman said that £20,000 had been expended yearly on public works at Queenstown, and the reason why they did not expend more was that they could not get convict labour. Now, that was very creditable to Ireland. His (Sir Edward Watkin's) opinion was that they could got free labour quite as cheap as convict labour. It appeared to be the determination of the Government not to take the economical and expeditious way of completing the work now in progress, but to dawdle over it for half a century simply to enable the Chancellor of the Exchequer to accommodate his Estimates. According to the calculations of the Government, it would be 20 years before the work was finished, and he
 445
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he hoped that, in future, Chancellors of the Exchequer would abstain from entering into such contracts, and would not interfere with the manner in which the First Commissioner of Works did his duty.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  remarked that in objecting to the Vote he thought they were quarrelling with their broad and butter.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, if one thing more than another had been a cause of dissatisfaction to the people of Ireland with reference to the way in which the affairs of Ireland were administered it was the way in which these offices were filled up. The invariable rule was that only those who were partizans of the Government for the time being were appointed to these offices. He thought the sooner that system of political corruption was abolished the better it would be for Ireland.
 SIR JOHN KENNAWAY  also hoped that the recommendation of the subcommittee of Trustees would be given effect to. That it was a most reasonable one was evident from the fact that the salaries now paid had been fixed so far back as the year 1812.
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  said, he was in favour of an organized system of lectures in the metropolis; but he thought there were difficulties in the way of carrying out the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Sir William Harcourt). There was, however, a very general opinion that something of the kind should be done. As his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Mundella) had given Notice of a Motion on the general question of the management and administration of the British Museum, he would not now go into that matter, further than to express a hope that the Report and recommendations of the Commissioners on Science and Scientific Instruction might receive the attention of Her Majesty's Government. He was, however, anxious to say a few words in reference to the salaries of the keepers and assistants in the Museum. Last year the Trustees appointed a sub-committee, which went very carefully into the whole matter. They did not recommend an indiscriminate increase, giving their reasons in some cases for not urging an advance; but they did recommend certain alterations—for instance, that the maximum salary of senior keepers should be raised to £750, of junior keepers to £600, of senior assistants to £500. The subcommittee stated that, as a matter of fact, the Museum was losing, and would continue to lose, its best men. This report of the sub-committee was subsequently approved and adopted by the general body of Trustees, but not acceded to by the Treasury. He hoped, however, that those recommendations would be reconsidered. The suggestions of the subcommittee did not seem unreasonable, and every lover of science and art must feel that it was a most serious thing when they were told that the Museum was losing its best men. They should remember that in the keepers and assistants they required men of very special attainments, which could only be acquired by constant study, and by persons of very considerable intellectual powers. The keepers of the British Museum had, moreover, the charge of collections the value of which was almost inestimable, and which could never be replaced. The chief clerks in other departments were much more highly paid than the chief assistants, or even the
 448
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  asked whether there was any objection to make known what system of arrangement was proposed to be adopted in the new museum at the Natural History collection for South Kensington?
 SIR MASSEY LOPES , on behalf of the Government, said, the works had certainly been procrastinated long beyond the period originally intended, but there were good reasons for the delay. In the first place, the number of convicts at the disposal of the Irish Government had been very limited; and secondly, unexpected engineering difficulties had arisen in connection with the construction of the works which had greatly tended to postpone their completion. He thought the hon. Member was in error in some of his statements. The works were projected in 1864, and begun in 1865, at the same time as several other docks. The first Estimate for the whole of these workswas£6,000,000, the sum then put clown for Haulbowline being £250,000. Sir Andrew Clarke, however, reduced the gross Estimate to £4,650,000, and the sum to be devoted to Haulbowline was put at £150,000—the first Estimate being based upon the employment of "free" labour, and the second on that of convict labour. The sum of £20,000 a-year was regularly taken for the construction of the works; but in 1871 it was discovered that there were great engineering difficulties in the way. It was found necessary to have a very large pumping apparatus, and a considerable addition to the works was also necessary. A new Estimate was recently taken, and a further reduction was made, the work being still done by convict labour. When the first Estimate was made it was expected there would be about 1,200 convicts employed on the works; but in reality there had been only 450 or 500, and that was one of the great difficulties with which they
 444
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  asked the Lord Advocate, Whether provision will be made for remunerating the parochial collectors of Scotland for the additional labour imposed upon them by the Scottish Education Act of collecting the school rates in each parish?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member was under a mistake, as the matter did appear on the Vote.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  reminded the Committee that in bringing forward his Financial Statement he mentioned that it was intended to propose a Vote for the purpose of meeting increased contributions on behalf of Government and in respect of Government property towards local rates. He had thought it convenient to bring this Vote before the Committee at a time when they had before them a Valuation Bill, which took away exemptions hitherto enjoyed, and in that respect resembled the Bill of the late Government, but which differed in one or two particulars from the latter measure, and more especially in not making any provision for rendering Government property liable to rates. When the Bill of last year was discussed some difficulty was found in arriving at a decision as to the mode in which Government property should be rated, and he believed the difficulty was one which it would not be easy to overcome. At all events, it had appeared to the present Government that they should endeavour to meet the case rather by a vote in aid of the rates, than by an Act of Parliament. With this view he now proposed that the Committee should vote a sum of £170,000, in addition to the amount—about
 477 "We have had under our consideration the subject of the rules which ought to govern the distribution of the proposed increased grant of Parliament for contributions in lieu of rates in respect of property occupied for the public service. We adopt the principle that property occupied for the public service should contribute to the local rates equally with the other property in the parishes in which it is situated, having due regard to its character in each case. The contribution will be made to the poor and all other local rates levied in the parish in which the property is situate, and no parish will be excluded from such contributions on the ground that the Government property is less than a certain  minimum ex officio 478
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, he had read with great pleasure that morning the speech of the Prime Minister at the Merchant Taylors', by which, as far as he understood it, he meant to imply that the House of Lords represented 28,000,000 of people, and the House of Commons only 2,000,000. That would account for the Government first laying their proposal on this subject before the House of Lords; but if the House of Commons only represented 2,000,000, they represented the taxpayers of the country, and the question now before them was whether this Vote was really to benefit this country or the world at large. Were they to vote this money as politicians or as philanthropists? The establishments we kept up on the Coast were expensive and unprofitable. In 20 years we had spent upwards of £2,000,000, while our trade with that country amounted to only £2,270,000. A Member of the Government had stated that the question was not to be settled by the more balance of profit and loss. It was also admitted that there was no written obligation binding us to maintain
 465 The Pall Mall Gazette said "We do not hold the Gold Coast to spread Christianity, or to civilize the natives, or to attempt the suppression of human sacrifice, and it is miserable hypocrisy to pretend that we do. We hold it because we want to trade with the natives of West Africa. It is but too true that in this case Christianity moans rum and civilization gunpowder; but the proper inference may he, not that we should give up trading in rum and gunpowder, but that we should give up talking about Christianity and civilization." "It is simply and solely a sense of obligations to he redeemed and of duties to he performed which bids us remain on the West Coast of Africa." 466 The Times The Times "Messrs. White and Campbell have been entrusted with the execution of the sword to be presented by the Corporation of London to Sir Garnet Wolseley, and have submitted for inspection a drawing of the weapon, with the ornaments to be cut and embossed on it. On the panels of the hilt are represented the figures of Wisdom and Truth. Fame and Victory recline on the guard. The sheath hears on one side the arms of Sir Garnet, and on the reverse those of the City of London. Underneath are figures representing Britannia, accompanied by Peace, receiving a welcome from the Fantees, Victory encouraging the negroes to energy and exertion, and Valour trampling on Tyranny. In the midst of the trophies are the words, 'Cape Coast Castle, Amoaful, Coomassie, and Abrakrampa.'" "The Fantees, fine tall men, were drawn up in line, after great competition among them as to who should be on the left, as that was farthest from the bush; behind them were their chiefs and kings with whips, and behind them again Kossus with swords. After great efforts, they were induced to march forward, the kings thrashing all within reach, and the Kossus in turn pressing the chiefs on. The officers, who were forbidden themselves to enter the bush, did all in their power to drive the Fantees forward, using, in the words of a despatch, 'more than verbal persuasion.' One officer, in fact, completely ruined his umbrella. But when they reached the hush, into which all but the kings were at last forced to enter, they squatted down, and there they remained for the rest of the day." "O for a forty-parson power To chant thy praise, hypocrisy?" 467 The Colonial Intelligencer 468 "The most superficial acquaintance with human nature ought to have satisfied any candid person that slavery necessarily bears the same fruits in Africa as it does in Cuba or Brazil. The special correspondents attached to Sir Garnet Wolseley's expedition found that negroes were openly bought and sold within the limits of the British Settlements; that the Courts were habitually used to assert the authority of the master over his bondsman; that shrieking women who had endeavoured to fly from captivity were bound hand and foot and dragged back to their owners; and that even the deck of an English vessel in the harbour offered no secure asylum to the fugitive slave. Nay, more, it appeared that the corps of female porters, whose services proved of the greatest value to the Army, consisted to a large extent of slaves who had been supplied by three ladies of Cape Coast Castle." 469
 MR. W. M'ARTHUR  congratulated Her Majesty's Government on the course they had pursued in relation to this question, and was certain that it would be approved by the country generally. If they had taken active steps to put down slavery on the Gold Coast, the state of things there would now be very
 475 The Times
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the reason why there were not so many vacancies in the Royal Military Academy at the present moment as in January last was, that the Engineer and Artillery force was more nearly being filled up. There were 30 vacancies now against 36 in January last, and it was probable that the number would not rise at present for the reason he had stated.
 MR. ASSHETON GROSS , in reply, said, that it was certainly not his intention to recommend Her Majesty's Government to take the course proposed by his hon. Friend. He thought that if the 15th section of the Act of Parliament, which required the efficiency of the force before the making of grants, was wise, the 17th section, which limited the grants to places with over 5,000 inhabitants, was still more wise. If places with small populations were to be indulged with the expensive and somewhat extravagant luxury of having a police of their own, he was afraid they must also be indulged with the still more extravagant luxury of paying for it themselves.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the subalterns who were completing their education under the altered conditions imposed by the changes referred to by the hon. Member would receive their commissions just in the same way as formerly, on the completion of their course.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, his attention had not been called to the Report referred to in the Question of the hon. Member. He was not in possession of the document, nor had it been sent to the War Office, and he was therefore unaware of the decision which had been arrived at. He might add that Her Majesty's Government had come to no absolute decision as to the adoption of the sword-bayonet.
 MR. CARTWRIGHT  thought that there was no subject more worthy of consideration, as affecting English interests, than that which had been brought under their attention by the hon. Member (Mr. Baillie Cochrane), but he had been disappointed in the wording of the Resolution and in the speech of his hon. Friend, because he had mixed up two subjects which ought to be kept quite separate, namely, the question of the judicial system in Egypt as regarded the Consular jurisdiction, and the question of the Suez Canal. The latter question not only affected the interests of Europe, but also of England, and it was necessary, therefore, that the attention of the House and the country should be drawn to the issues connected with it. The present judicial system was based on no right that could show a legal title, and was merely the outcome of abuses which had existed for centuries. He believed, however, that Consular jurisdiction abroad involved no more than a fair and right guarantee which was demanded by civilized Governments for the protection of their subjects from Governments which were not civilized. The present condition was this in regard to Egypt. An international Conference met at Cairo, and, after conferring with the Egyptian Government, proposals were made and accepted for a new judicial system, with certain guarantees. But when, two years ago, the question was brought before the House by the hon. Member for the Isle
 519
 MR. KINNALRD  said, he trusted that the recommendations which had been made would be carried out by the Government. He rose to defend the policy of Lord Palmerston with regard to the construction of the Suez Canal; for he (Mr. Kinnaird) contended that the noble Lord's opposition was not to the construction of the Canal, but to the terms of the proposed concession to France, which would have given her sovereign rights over a large extent of territory, and would have authorized the construction of the works by slaves instead of by free labour. He trusted that the Government would not shrink from securing this highway between Europe and India, even if it were by means of a guarantee,
 521
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN : I rise, Sir, to call attention to a question which I had the honour of bringing before the House two Sessions ago—the propriety of appointing to the office of County Court Judges in Wales, gentlemen who are themselves conversant with the Welsh language. And although some of the remarks which I shall have to address to the House are applicable
 525 526 sine quâ non 527 528 529 "In this case the Lord Chancellor had authorized him to say that he admitted the force of much which had been urged. Legal fitness would, of course, he always the first consideration; but after the representations which had been made by hon. Members connected with Wales, the Government—as also, he was sure, all future Governments—would have regard to a knowledge of Welsh.…He agreed with his hon. Friend (Mr. Richard) that the Welsh could only be won over by kindness, attention to their wishes, and ample provision for education. It was a mistake to suppose that the life of the Welsh language would be prolonged by insisting on County Court Judges understanding it, for the only effect of such a change as that implied in the Resolution would be to impart in the minds of the people a feeling that they were treated with a degree of justice and consideration which he was bound to say they had not hitherto received. That was what the Government were desirous of doing, and therefore he would, on their part, say they were willing to accept the Motion with the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montgomery."—[3  Hansard "That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable, in the interests of the due administration of justice, that the Judge of a County Court district in which the Welsh language is generally spoken should, as far as the limits of selection will allow, be able to speak and understand that language." 530 v 531
 MR. SCOURFIELD  thought that if the hon. and learned Member for Denbighshire wished that where two men had equal qualifications in all other respects, and only one of them possessed a knowledge of Welsh, the latter should be preferred for a judicial appointment in Wales, then he could agree with him; but if he meant, as one could not help suspecting he did, that the area of competition should be restricted to persons who could speak Welsh, then he thought the disadvantages of such an arrangement would more than counterbalance its advantages. During his own experience of more than a quarter of a century as a Chairman of quarter sessions, he had often had cases brought before him in which almost the whole of the evidence was given in Welsh, but he had not the slightest reason to think that there had been any failure of justice on that account, and he had never heard any complaint on the subject. There was in such cases a sworn interpreter, who gave his evidence in open Court, and whose words were watched by persons who never hesitated to correct him if he said anything that was wrong;
 534 patois sine quâ non
 MR. WYNN  testified, from his own experience, that the aid of an interpreter was far from adequate as a means of enabling a County Court Judge in Wales who did not know Welsh to discharge the duties of his office. If that was the case, the expediency of appointing Welsh speaking Judges in Wales was obvious. The business of the Court was much of the nature of Petty Sessions business, for it often happened that no attorney appeared in a case, and considerable skill on the part of the Judge was required in order to extract the real grievance on the one side, or the defence on the other. And when an attorney was engaged he was often able, by questioning the interpreter, to give to evidence a particular shade of meaning which the witness had not intended. Indeed, a fair estimate of the value of the evidence could not be formed if the Judge did not understand the language.
 537
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that although great interest was naturally taken in the subject, he did not think it necessary to prolong the discussion. He for one—and he could say the same on the part of the Government—deeply regretted the line of conduct pursued in regard to the Welsh Church, to which persons who could not speak Welsh were expressly appointed to teach the Welsh. He had lived long enough in Wales to regard Welsh as one of the most beautifully-sounding languages; but, in his opinion, although Welsh might continue to be spoken for a long time to come, the fact could not be concealed that English was rapidly spreading throughout the Principality, so much so that in the course of the next generation there would propably be no one in all Wales unable to speak English. It could not be denied that it was a great advantage to have a Judge conversant with the language of the people who came before him. With regard to the question of interpreters, the more important trials before the higher Judges of the land would probably with the aid of sworn interpreters go on very well, although the Judges did not know the language; but in smaller cases, where it was necessary for the Judge himself to sift the evidence of contending parties who had not previously been examined, the matter was very different. At the same time he believed that an able Judge, perfectly versed in law and in the system of evidence, would not rest content, although unacquainted with the language, till he had ascertained the actual truth of the case. His hon. and learned Friend when bringing this subject before the House in 1872, acknowledged that first of all due regard must be paid to the legal qualification. There was practically no difference between those who were in favour of and those who were against the Motion. As he had said, in cases of great importance, he thought that Judges not familiarly acquainted with Welsh might
 538
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  merely wished to say, that he certainly considered it was the duty of the Secretary for War to secure that there should be good non-commissioned officers in the Army. The education and training which they received not only qualified them for rising in the service, but also made them coveted by mercantile firms and others, and they were consequently tempted to leave the Army by the higher rate of pay they would receive in civil life. It was very desirable that the services of these meritorious men should be retained for the service of the Army, and he could assure hon. Members that his attention was fully directed to the subject.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON : Sir—After the long and exhaustive speech of my noble Friend the Under Secretary of State, it will not be necessary for me to detain the House with any lengthened remarks upon this subject, but inasmuch as this is by no means the first time we have been favoured with a long discussion as to the same case and the same contention, I think it right to refer hon. Members of the House, or at any rate such as were not in the last Parliament, to a similar discussion which took place no longer a time than three years ago. On that occasion, Sir, the then Member for Christchurch, I think it was, moved for a Committee in the same manner as has been done now by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Fins-bury. The then Under Secretary of State entered upon a long and exhaustive reply like that which has been given by the noble Lord. If any hon. Gentleman is curious in this matter, he need only refer to the debate of the 4th of July, 1871, and he will there see set forth everything that can be said  pro con 580 "The discussion would be much shortened, and a decision upon the Motion facilitated, if hon. Members would bear in mind the particular proposition submitted to them—namely, whether certain treaties and agreements have been faithfully observed by the Indian Government, and to what claims, if any, the present Nawab Nazim might be entitled under them. If treaties had been entered into with this family and not fulfilled, that was a question which touched the honour of a great country like England; but if the allowances given were merely given as customary donations and as a matter of grace and favour, then the controversy assumed a very different aspect. The whole question was, what were the relations of those high personages who held the title of Nazim 100 years ago to the Indian Government. Were they powerful Princes or not, and did we enter into treaties with them as Sovereign Powers or not? What was conceded to us was the collection of the revenues, and the Emperor of Delhi cared little about anything but that we should pay his tribute, and provide for the expenses of the Nizamut. That bargain having been made 100 years ago between competent authorities, it was useless to go into the motives which led to the arrangement. What was given to us was the collection of the revenues, and we had nothing to do with the administration but to see that it was provided for. Fresh bargains were afterwards made with the different succeeding Nazims. The Commissioners afterwards took the administration into their own hands and performed the duties themselves. If the House would endeavour to avoid mixing up questions as to the treaties with other questions, they would perceive, he thought, that the matter was hardly one to be referred to a Select Committee.…This was not a question upon which a Committee could throw any light, for the matter rested, not upon treaty, but upon the liberal arrangements of the Indian Government, and if this House were to undertake to revise the daily administration of the affairs of India it would be found unable to do so."—[3  Hansard "We look in vain for any words of inheritance or succession in any of those several treaties, or, in fact, for any expression to show an intention on the part of either of the contracting parties to include the heirs or successors of any such several individuals. Our attention has been specially directed to the concluding lines in the last of those treaties—viz., that of 1770—in which the words 'forever' occur; but upon reference to their context, it clearly appears that the intention in using them was that the 'agreement' (whatever it was) contained in that Treaty should be inviolably observed for ever; and we have above
 581
 MR. O'CONOR  denied that the general opinion of the House as to inspection went beyond inspection at the port of embarcation, and contended that all the evidence at present taken on the subject had gone to show that Irish cattle were not more extensively subject to disease than animals bred and sold in either England or Scotland. He approved the proposals made by the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and hoped they would be carried into effect without delay.
 LORD ESLINGTON , as a Member of the Council of the Royal Agricultural Society of England supported the spirit of the Resolution, although he did not think that many diseased cattle were exported from Ireland. As a rule, he believed that Irish cattle were sound, and he was not in favour of prohibiting the importation of Irish cattle into this country. The Government were asked by the proposition' to enforce a more
 593
 MR. DUNDAS  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that the number of vacancies in the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich to be offered for competition in July next is only about half the number offered for competition in January last; and, if such is the case, whether he will state what is the reason of such diminution; and, whether it will be possible in future, so far to consider the convenience of intending competitors as to give early notice of any considerable reduction in the number of vacancies to be offered for competition?
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  thought the House would agree that the pay of the Army, whether of a general or of a private soldier, was not excessive, and everybody therefore would be anxious that this important subject should be carefully considered. The sergeants were the backbone of the British army, and consequently if there was any dissatisfaction on their part it would interfere with the discipline of the whole
 543 d d 544
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Will the hon. and learned Member read it all?
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir—If I was not tolerably well acquainted
 568 569 570 571 572 573 574
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : I rise to Order. I used no threats. What I said was—and what I repeat is—that if these professed claims were submitted to any tribunal, I care not how composed, he would rue the day when he submitted them.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE , in rising to call the attention of the House to the difficulties which arise from the Consular Jurisdiction in Egypt, more especially as it affects our relations with the Suez Canal Company; and to move—
 "That the commerce of this Country being so deeply interested in the uninterrupted navigation of the Suez Canal, it is desirable that Her Majesty's Government should at once give its adhesion to the proposed judicial reforms in Egypt, suggested and approved of by the representatives of all the European Powers, by which tribunals will be created for the better administration of justice in Egypt and the adjudication of differences which may arise between British shipowners and the administrators of the Suez Canal Company," 514 515 "injurious to British interests and derogatory to the character and well-being of the Egyptian Administration;" "Her Majesty's Government are certainly not inclined to hold out for a jurisdiction for which they have no treaty right, which they admit to he an usurpation, though brought about by force of circumstances." "The Governments of England and France agreeing to the proposed reforms, it seems to Her Majesty's Government that the fact of that accord should be made known to the other Powers who are represented on the Commission that sat at Cairo. It remains for the Viceroy to obtain the consent of the Sultan to these proposed reforms, and it is for the Sultan to inform all the Powers that these reforms are sanctioned by law." 516 517 employé "What is remarkable," M. de Lesseps added," is that these improvements are suggested by the English Government to enable their transports of 4,500 tons to pass through the Canal." The Messager de Paris "It is the English Government which has imposed its resolutions on the Sultan. It is with profound regret our readers will learn that it is England which has shown this contempt for French interests." 518
 MR. KAVANAGH  agreed very much with the spirit of the recommendations of the hon. Member for Forfarshire, though to some part of their wording objection might be taken, and more especially as regarded the proposed restrictions on the transit of cattle between England and Ireland. If it were found possible to assimilate the regulations of Great Britain and Ireland, it would, in his opinion, be very desirable. With regard to the foot-and-mouth disease, most of the restrictions which might be enforced in England were optional with the local authorities. It was hardly to be supposed, therefore, that they were very similar all over England; and, if
 592
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he understood there was not the slightest change, it being merely the renewal of the Letter granted in 1872, which fell to the ground in consequence of the Dissolution of Parliament. If, however, there should be any difference he would lay the Letter upon the Table of the House.
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, it was quite true that Her Majesty had been advised to re-issue or renew the Letter of Business, which was issued to Convocation in the year 1872. The Letter was not on the Table, but if the right hon. Gentleman wished to have a Copy there would be no objection to granting it.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I quite understand the scope of the Question of the hon. Member; but I must say I do not think it for the public advantage that I should at the present moment express in any distinct or definite manner what are the steps which Her Majesty's Government contemplate to effect the object we have in view.
 MR. DISRAELI : There certainly, Sir, is a great want of accommodation and great inconvenience in the premises at present occupied by the War Office, and I think it will be necessary to take steps to obviate that inconvenience, but I must say that I am not prepared at present to state what those steps should be.
 MAJOR GENERAL SHUTE  said, he fully concurred in what had been said by the hon. and gallant Member for Galway in regard to the absolute necessity for improving the condition of the non-commissioned officers of the Army; but at the same time he was sorry that his hon. and gallant Friend had not suggested any mode of doing so. He thought an improvement in our present system would result, and that it would facilitate recruiting, if measures were taken to induce good soldiers to remain in the Army, and thus endeavour to regain for the service those good old non-commissioned officers whom the recent changes had totally removed. The pecuniary position of the non-commissioned officers was unquestionably a bad one; and they had received a great blow when the purchase system was done away with. Formerly it was a most desirable thing for a sergeant to obtain a commission, as the sale of it was at least certain to produce him a moderate competency when he retired; whereas now it would be a misfortune if he were promoted, as he would only incur a certain amount of expense, and at the end of his service would be deprived of the ability to sell his commission. At a meeting of the United Institution, a year ago, at which Lord Derby presided, it was suggested that a number of civil appointments should be given to old non-commissioned officers, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would take that suggestion into his consideration.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK : Sir, it is somewhat difficult to follow the noble Lord in his indignation at the course adopted, and the extent of the liberality which has been extended to this Prince. It has been stated by the noble Lord that the title to these rights is derived by the Nawab Nazim from his ancestor, Meer Jaffier, and that Meer Jaffier had no rights of his own as a Prince, and having no rights for himself, had none to convey to his descendants, so that none of his successors had any claim. Now, in referring to a work of some authority as descriptive of what took place after the Battle of Plassey, I find it mentioned in the preface to these Treaties that were entered into, that—
 "A confederacy was formed amongst Surajah Dowlah's officers to enter into a Treaty with Meer Jaffier, and as at the Battle of Plassey, which was fought on the 23rd of June, 1757, the power of the Surajah Dowlah was completely broken, Meer Jaffier Ally Khan was settled by Clive as Soubadar of Bengal." 575 "The Nawab makes war or peace without the privity of the Mogul, and although there appears to he some remains of the old constitution in the succession to the position of Nawab, yet in fact the succession is never regulated by the Mogul's appointment. The Nawab, if possible, is desirous of verifying his succession by the Mogul's confirmation, but the Court of Delhi, conscious of its inability to interfere, readily grants its consent. The Nawab of Bengal is, therefore,  de facto de jure de facto de jure "Articles of Treaty and Agreement between the Governor and Council of Fort William on the part of the East India Company, and Nawab Mobaruk-ul-Dowlah, dated the 21st March, 1770." 576 "On the part of the Company, we, the Governor and Council, do engage to secure to the Nawab Mobaruk-ul-Dowlah the Soubahdarry of the Provinces of Bengal, Behar, and Orissa, and to support him therein with the Company's Forces against all his enemies." "On the part of the Nawab. The Treaty which my father formerly concluded with the Company upon his first accession to the Nizamut, engaging to regard the honour and reputation of the Company, and of the Governor and Council as his own, and that entered into with my brothers, the Nawabs Nudjm-ul-Dowlah, and Syef-ul-Dowlah, the same Treaties, as far as is consistent with the true spirit, intent, and meaning thereof, I do hereby ratify and confirm."
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK : Oh, certainly.
 "The King has been graciously pleased to grant unto the English East India Company, the Dewannyship of Bengal, Behar, and Orissa as a free gift for ever; and I, having an entire confidence in them and in their servants "— "settled in this country, that nothing whatever be proposed or carried into execution by them derogating from my honour, interest, and the good of my country "— "do therefore, for the better conducting the affairs of the Soubahdarry, and promoting my honour and interest and that of the Company, in the best manner, agree that the protecting the Provinces of Bengal, Behar, and Orissa, and the
 577 "The Nawab, Minauh Dowlah, who was at the instance of the Governor and Gentlemen of the Council, appointed Naib of the Provinces, and invested with the management of affairs, in conjunction with Maharajah Doolubram, and Juggat Scat, shall continue in the same post, and with the same authority; and having a perfect confidence in him, I moreover agree to let him have the disbursing of the above sum of Rupees sixteen lakhs, for the purposes above mentioned. "This Agreement, by the blessing of God, shall be inviolably observed for ever." "Nawab Sahib, of high worth and exalted station, my good brother, I wish you peace. "After expressing devoted desire beyond description for a happy interview, I would announce what you will have gleaned from the newspapers of the 29th February last, that this friend has been appointed to succeed the Most Noble the Marquis of Dalhousie, K.T., as Governor-General of India. Permit me to add, this friend entered Calcutta, the seat of Government, and assumed the duties of this high office on the 26th February 1853, corresponding to the 22nd Jumadee-ul-Sanee, 1272, H. "Your Highness may be assured the consideration, respect, and friendly interest in the prosperous administration of your affairs, and just regard to the honours and dignities due to your hereditary rank and the prescriptive privileges of your high station "— 578 "guaranteed by the stipulations of subsisting Treaties and long established relations, observed and cherished by former Governors-General, will on the part, also, of this sincere friend, be fervently fostered and punctually fulfilled." de facto 579
 MR. ELLICE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Government has considered and come to any decision relative to the question of extending to pauper lunatics confined in licensed wards of poorhouses, or boarded out under authority from the Board of Lunacy in Scotland, the benefit of the allowance proposed in the statement upon the Budget to be given in respect of pauper lunatics confined in asylums?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had only asked the Question in case the form should have been varied.
 MR. HORSMAN  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it be true that Her Majesty has been advised to issue a Letter of Business to Convocation; and, whether a Copy of that Letter will be at the same time presented to Parliament?
 MR. SYNAN  held with respect to foot-and-mouth disease that no other measure was necessary than a strict inspection at the ports, and with respect to that there would be no difficulty in finding proper Inspectors, provided they were paid. With regard to pleuro-pneumonia, whenever the police in Ireland learnt that that disease existed on a farm, a cordon was drawn round the farm and no cattle were allowed to leave it. The Irish farmers were in favour of compulsory slaughter, but thought they were entitled to compensation. At present they were practically compelled to slaughter without receiving any compensation. He thanked the right hon. Gentleman for his temperate and sensible speech, which he hoped would allay the panic which seemed to pervade English and Scotch agriculturists. It was wholly a question of liberality as to the application of the Imperial funds for inspection and for compensation to the Irish farmers.
 MR. EGERTON HUBBARD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will extend to boroughs with a population under 5,000 (whose police are not consolidated with the county police) the Government grant of one fourth (now increased to one-half), the charge for the pay and clothing of their police, in all cases where such boroughs are efficient as regards "the stat of their police stations, charge rooms, cells," &c, and the other provisions of the Act 19 and 20 Vic, c. 69, s. 15, entitled "An Act to render more
 507
 MR. STORER  said, if anything could be more disheartening to the English stock-owner than the action of the Privy Council in this matter, it would be the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland. There was an universal concurrence of testimony that the great losses from pleuro-pneumonia in the Eastern, Midland, and Western Counties had been traced to the importation of Irish cattle; and the country demanded that a strict inspection should be maintained in Ireland as well as here, and also a better system of inspection at the ports, both of embarcation and debarcation. It was no use closing their front door against Continental infection, and leaving their back door open to Irish disease. Possibly cattle, healthy when they left Ireland, might sometimes acquire disease on
 597
 MR. WHALLEY  thought the promise of the Home Secretary to give due consideration to the matter would not accomplish the object of his hon. and learned Friend, which was to give confidence to the people of Wales that their claims were fully and fairly considered, and especially to give them confidence in the administration of justice. He had formerly directed the attention of the House to the question of appointing Welsh speaking Bishops, and he thought that in the matter of Judges, as in that of Bishops, the wishes of the Welsh speaking population should be considered. He trusted the Home Secretary would give his earnest attention to the statements which had been brought before the House.
 MR. RICHARD , while observing that the Welsh Members were much indebted to the hon. Baronet for his remarks upon the subject, regretted that the hon. Member for Pembrokeshire (Mr. Scourfield) should have deemed it to be consistent with his duty to throw cold water on the proposal under discussion. He respected the hon. Gentleman very much, but he could not attach very great weight to his testimony in the present instance, because he resided in one of the most Anglicised counties in Wales. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think that it was necessary not only that a Judge should know Welsh, but that he should be conversant with a particular  patois patois 536
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, the remarks of the Homo Secretary must, on the whole, be accepted as satisfactory; but he would, at the same time, caution the right hon. Gentlemen against placing too much confidence in the "Anglicisation" of Welsh districts. His district bad increased, of late years, more in
 539
 MR. J. W. BARCLAY  said, he had given Notice of a Motion to the effect—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the Government ought to take the necessary steps to carry into effect the recommendations of the Select Committee of last Session on Contagious Diseases (Animals); (a.) that the regulations in Great Britain and Ireland with regard to cattle diseases should be similar; (1).) that such regulations should he carefully enforced at the landing places both in Great Britain and Ireland; (c.) that the Irish Government should take steps by inspection at Irish ports to prevent the shipment to Great Britain of any diseased or infected cattle; " 586 587 588 589
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, the precautions taken in the county Down had been effectual in stamping out disease among the cattle there, and he believed very few affected animals were sent from that part of the country either to England or Scotland.
 MR. DODSON  said, he was of opinion that, as a general rule foot-and-mouth disease might be best left to the farmers themselves, except when, as periodically happened, it appeared in an unusually virulent form, when it might be well to give discretionary power to local authority. He wished to point out that there were great practical difficulties in dealing with the case of Ireland in respect to the slaughter of cattle at the various points suspected to be suffering from pleuro-pneumonia. Those difficulties arose from the system of compensation, from the absence or inadequacy of a local authority in the country, and the obstacles which stood in the way of obtaining properly qualified Inspectors, the result being that it was found necessary to rely on the Constabulary to act in that capacity. There were, no doubt, considerable difficulties, and as hon. Members connected with England and Ireland had now spoken in the matter, he hoped some Member of the Government would at once rise and announce to the House the views which they entertained on the subject.
 MR. J. MARTIN : Mr. Speaker—As one of that Irish party who desire, as I have said on a previous occasion, to form a friendly and voluntary connection with the English people; who desire to form a friendly arrangement with them by which we will consent to their foreign policy; and who desire, therefore, that the foreign policy of England should be in accordance with the national sentiment of Ireland—should be fair, just, and generous—I will say that as to this Indian question I am in accord with the hon. Member who has last spoken. I may frankly tell the House that the people of Ireland have never been satisfied, are not satisfied, and perhaps never will be satisfied with such a foreign policy of England as is characterized by Alabama payments, Ashantee wars, and Indian famines. We desire that the foreign policy of the great Empire of which we now express our willingness to form a part, should be characterized by measures of equity and generosity; and in that spirit I implore the House to take into its most serious consideration the speech of my hon. Friend who has just sat down.
 MR. J. MARTIN  said, he had hoped to hear from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, some explanation of the circumstances which were detailed in the Report of the Suez Canal Company. That Report led him to the conclusion that the diplomatic influence of England had been exerted in a sense ungenerous and unfair towards the Company. In the scheme which would shortly be laid before the House, for forming a friendly legislative connection on equitable terms between this country and Ireland, the foreign relations of the Empire would of course be referred to. These foreign relations the Irish Members intended to leave, as at present, to the control of this country; but the sentiment and opinion of Ireland would, he hoped, exercise some influence over the foreign policy of England. But the people of Ireland would never be able to sympathize with a policy that was greedy or selfish; and he feared that it had been selfish in the case of the Suez Canal. It would be very ungenerous and very unfair if England, who owned seven-tenths of the vessels which passed through the Canal, so acted as to prevent the shareholders of the Company from deriving a fair profit from their undertaking.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN , in rising to call attention to the present rate of pay and the general position of Sergeants in the Army, and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the position of the Sergeants in the Army is unsatisfactory, and demands the immediate attention of the Government, with a view to its improvement," 540 541 d d s s d s d s d 542 s d d s s
 MR. RONAYNE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the fact that the Board of Works (Ireland) can only lend corporate bodies one-half the amount they may require for the erection or improvement of dwellings for the working classes, and that corporate bodies can only levy a rate for the moiety so lent, and are therefore unable to avail themselves of Loans for such purposes; and, whether he will, in the Public Health Bill or otherwise, provide for this difficulty by enabling the Board of Works to lend the whole amount, and by giving corporate bodies power to levy rates to pay the interest thereon?
 MR. MARK STEWART  said, it was quite necessary that this matter should receive full consideration at the hands
 590 591
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he did not know that he need dwell on the first Resolution which had been placed on the Paper by the hon. Member
 594 595 596
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, it was a fact that the Board of Works could only lend to corporate bodies in Ireland one half of the amount they might require for the erection of improved dwellings for the working classes, and, unless the corporate bodies were possessed of landed property sufficient to secure the other half, a rate levied under the Act was the only fund available for the repayment of the Loan. With regard to the second part of the hon. Member's Question, he must remark that the matter was one rather for the consideration of the Treasury than of the Irish Government; but if the hon. Member liked to propose a clause for insertion in the Public Health Bill, he should then be prepared to announce the intentions of the Government on the question.
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  said, that the subject to which his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Denbighshire had directed the attention of the House had excited great interest in the Principality. It was an important subject, because it closely concerned the administration of justice, and on that ground it merited, in his opinion, the careful attention of the Government. It was
 532 s s 533
 MR. COOPE  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) had not answered the latter part of the Question which he put to him a few minutes ago; he was desirous of learning from him, Whether the Government intend to purchase the block of buildings between Parliament Street and King Street?
 MR. COOPE  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, with a view to remedy the want of accommodation and the inconvenience of the premises at present occupied by the War Office, he is prepared to take steps for the erection of a new building suitable to the wants of the Country; and, whether he is prepared to take powers for the purchase of the block of buildings between Parliament Street and King Street, with the object of erecting public offices thereon?
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  thought the subject was one which well deserved consideration by Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. MUNTZ  asked the Secretary of State for War, If his attention has been called to the Report of the French Special Commission presided over by Marshal Canrobert, in which it has been virtually decided to abolish the use of the sword-bayonet; and if, in face of that decision, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to persist in the adoption of this weapon?
 MR. BOURKE  said, that no one would regret that this subject had been brought before the House by the hon. Member for the Isle of Wight, seeing its important character. The increasing cultivation of cotton, and the commercial enterprise dependent upon, and the amount of capital invested in, the Suez Canal, had rendered a judicial reform in Egypt absolutely necessary; and beyond that, their communications with India and other places were also daily becoming more important. No one could deny the evils of the present system. Under the treaties and capitulations now in force, each European Government had acquired a distinct jurisdiction, with unlimited power over its respective subjects. Thus, groups of people of different nationalities in Egypt formed distinct colonies, having different laws, Courts, procedure, prisons, and judicial staff, and the result was that 16 or 17 Consulates and Consular Courts exercised jurisdiction on different principles. The universal rule was, that each defendant must be brought before his own tribunal. That rule was almost invariably taken advantage of, and the result was, that there was a direct premium upon breaches of contract, because the plaintiff in an action could not possibly toll in which of these numerous Courts his remedy against the defendant must be sought; and beyond that, each party to a suit wished to be made defendant, so that he might choose the tribunal. If a plaintiff brought an action against one member of a firm consisting of a Greek, a Russian, and an Austrian, and recovered judgment in the Greek Court, the execution of that judgment was sure to be opposed by the Russian and Austrian Courts, and it would be necessary to recover judgment in both those Courts before the plaintiff could obtain payment of his debt. In the case of an execution, the property of a debtor was sometimes assigned to another nationality, and then the Consul of the country of that person who occupied the property, stepped in to prevent the enforcement of execution. In cases of bankruptcy, too, when the firm consisted of
 522 523 524
 MR. HOLLAND  said, he knew of a case where the proceedings were conducted in Welsh, by reason of which the business was despatched in half the time that would otherwise have been occupied. Apart from that, if the Welsh language were adopted, the people would feel that their cases had been fully gone into. He supported the Motion, and hoped its intentions would be fully carried into effect.
 MR. EVANS  admitted that the interests of all parts of the United Kingdom on this subject were the same. The county of Derby, which he had the honour to represent, would be seriously inconvenienced if the importation of cattle from Ireland were stopped. He agreed with the last speaker that compulsory slaughter with compensation was the best means for stamping out pleuro-pneumonia; but, experience showed that the foot-and-mouth disease might be kept in check, if the Orders in Council respecting it were put in force. He hoped the local authorities would lose no time in taking that course. Although the regulations as to compulsory slaughter were inconvenient, yet, on the whole, the result had been beneficial to Derbyshire, and he thought local authorities should have the power of putting those regulations in force. A strong opinion existed among all those who were engaged in agriculture in Derbyshire that the foot-and-mouth disease was spread more by the railway trucks in which cattle were conveyed than by any other cause, and that it was necessary to have more stringent regulations with regard to railway companies disinfecting those trucks. The matter was, he considered, well worthy the notice of the Department.
 MR. ARCHDALL  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether Sub-Lieutenants who (in consequence of the late changes made with respect to the Royal Military College at Sandhurst) have been unable to finish the proscribed course of instruction, will receive their Commissions at the expiration of two years from the dates of their appointments, as contemplated by previous regulations?
 MR. COGAN  said, the question under consideration was a most important one, and he hoped the Government would adopt the suggestions of his hon. Friend who had just spoken. The importance of the matter in reference to the interests of Ireland could scarcely be exaggerated. Considerable anxiety had been created by a report that more stringent rules were to be enforced in connection with the import of cattle from that country, and strong feelings were entertained upon the point. The diseases of pleuro-pneumonia and foot-and-mouth were very different, and required totally different treatment. The restrictions were so very great that it would be quite impossible to put them in force. An Order in Council had been recently made to greatly increase the Inspectors in reference to this subject, which would increase the taxation on the people of this country. In his opinion the cattle about to be exported should be inspected at the port of embarcation, and if found diseased, there slaughtered. Such a course as that would prevent all the mischief which followed when diseased cattle were imported into a country. It would also be for the benefit of the cattle dealers themselves, for it would be a greater hardship to them to have their cattle confiscated, after the cost of the voyage had been incurred, and on the authority of an Inspector, than it would be to have them destroyed at home. The people of Ireland felt it was their interest that their cattle should be healthy; and with regard to pleuro-pneumonia, great restrictions seemed necessary and required to be enforced. He trusted that the subject would receive full consideration at the hands of the Government.
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he had given Notice of a Motion for that evening for the printing of the evidence and judgment referred to, because he thought they ought to have before them the grounds on which the decision was based. They had no power to review it, and he did not even suggest that it was not perfectly right. There was no doubt, however, that the judgment had excited some surprise, and not the less that the learned Judge had pursued the unusual course of mentioning a number of circumstances tending to exculpate Colonel Deakin. It was desirable that the House should know the extreme peril in which each individual Member of it was placed. They had now no authentic record to refer to in order to ascertain what the law really was as laid down by the Judges. Formerly such was not the case, for there was a regular series of Reports which recorded the judgments of Committees of the House of Commons. He would suggest to the House the expediency of agreeing to a Standing Order to the effect, that in each case a printed Copy of the Judgment should be laid upon the Table of the House in order that hon. Members might know the perils which they would have to encounter.
 MR. TORRENS : Mr. Speaker—I have undertaken to ask the attention of this House to the complaint of the lineal heir and recognized successor of the most confiding and most useful ally we ever had in India, who is now a suppliant for justice at your Bar. And what is the plaint of the unhappy Prince, who, against his will, is compelled to sojourn afar from home and country, to the detriment of his family and affairs? He fears, and with too much cause, that designs are harboured to disinherit his sons at his death, and to deprive them of advantages they have hitherto been taught to regard as in-defeasibly theirs. The evidence of such a purpose I shall lay before you, not with the fullness of detail with which it would be brought before a Committee,
 546 547 "Though," he says, "they might still acknowledge in words the superiority of the House of Tamerlane, yet in truth they were no longer lieutenants removable at pleasure, but independent hereditary Princes." "Their territorial settlement was effected by leave of a regularly established Government, invested with the right of Sovereignty. Calcutta and the lands adjoining were held under it by the Company as tenants rendering rent, and afterwards as officers exercising by delegation part of its authority;" namely, the "Receivership of taxes, in Bengal, Behar, and Orissa." 548 "Wherever I shall fix my Court, an English gentleman shall reside to transact all affairs between me and the Company; and a person shall also reside on my part at Calcutta to negotiate with the Governor and Council." 549 550 551 552 "If it be added to the Treaty that it shall stand for ever, it will from hence appear that the Treaty is real." 553 554 555 "By the Treaty of 1770 annexed," he said, "His Highness the Nawab has been recognized by the British Government as an independent Prince; and "— "the national faith is pledged for nothing being proposed or carried into execution, derogating
 556 557 "Anterior in its origin to the Treaty which settled 16 lacs of Rupees per annum on the Nizamut, and could not therefore after a contrary understanding had been so long acted on he made a charge on those 16 lacs." "The Deposit Fund is not public money, but part of the assignment by Treaty of the family, of which part is allowed to accumulate for its general benefit." "Allies of the British Crown and all friendly Powers of the death of the late; Nawab," and the "succession to the hereditary honours and dignities of the Nizamut and Soubadarry of Bengal, Behar, and Orissa, of his son Syud Munsoor Ullee." 558 559 "Our supremacy will never be heartily accepted and respected so long as we leave ourselves open to the doubts which are now felt, and which our uncertain policy has justified, as to our ultimate intentions towards Native chiefs." "All Treaties and engagements made by the Company with Native Princes would be scrupulously maintained, and that She would respect
 560 "Just regard to the honours and dignities duo to his hereditary rank, guaranteed by the stipulations of subsisting Treaties, and long established relations observed by former Governors General, would on his part be fervently fostered and punctually fulfilled." 561 562 mutato nomine 563 s s s 564 565 566 567
 MR. O'SULLIVAN , in rising to call attention to the system which at present prevails in Her Majesty's Bonding Stores in Ireland of allowing a cheap spirit, which is imported from Scotland, to be mixed in those Stores with Irish whiskey, and re-shipped direct from thence to this Country under Bond, which leads the purchaser to believe he is buying Irish-manufactured whiskey, which practice is calculated to injure the character of the Irish spirit trade, and to move a Resolution on the subject, said, the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer previously given on this subject, that the word "mixed" was branded on casks of such spirit, was altogether unsatisfactory, and he hoped to hear from the Government an announcement of a policy more in accordance with what was its obvious duty in the matter. Whiskey was one of the few industries of Ireland, and it was discreditable to the Government of this commercial community that the dishonest practice of introducing an impure spirit into the genuine article should be allowed to take place in the Queen's bonding stores. They had read of two adventurous young gentlemen who were convicted in the City for painting sparrows and selling them as canaries; but he thought that the conduct of the Government was far more serious in allowing inferior Scotch whiskey to be
 599 Laughter
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, he was aware that, in accordance with the Rules of the House, he was not entitled to submit any Amendment having reference to the Report of the learned Judge who had tried the Petition against the return of Colonel Deakin. The circumstances, however, were so extraordinary and unprecedented that he did not think the Motion ought to be allowed to pass without attention being drawn to the subject. He had endeavoured to understand the certificate of the learned Judge, and thought he was warranted in saying that if full effect were given to his Report, the result would be that they should hold that corruption did extensively prevail at the late Election, as, if the Report meant anything, a great many people appeared to have been corrupted, notwithstanding that the learned Judge reported that corrupt practices did not extensively prevail. He wished, however, to draw attention specially to the serious result of the case. A punishment all but criminal in its effect had been inflicted upon a former Member of that House under circumstances which he believed to be altogether unexampled. From that sentence there was no appeal, and from its consequences the gentleman to whom he referred could not purge himself for seven years. Such a state of things must necessarily claim the very serious attention of every hon. Member of that House to the risk each one of them might run if he ever again entered into an Election contest; for, according to the learned Judge, there was in the present case an absolute absence of corrupt intention. He distinctly negatived any such suggestion. The observations in respect of which he was ultimately unseated were, according to the Report, made by the candidate suddenly—upon the spur of the moment, and without any consideration as to the consequences of making them, or the audience to whom they were addressed. The House was placed in an unfortunate position, because while they could express an opinion upon a
 512
 MR. GOURLEY  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If any provision has been made in the late reorganization of the Customs Service for the promotion of Clerks of the First Class at the undermentioned Ports, viz. Aberdeen, Cardiff, Dover, Dundee, Exeter, Falmouth, Folkestone, Gloucester, Grimsby, Hartlepool, Limerick, Londonderry, Manchester, Newhaven, Newport, Portsmouth, North Shields, Sunderland, and Swansea; if not, if it be intended to alter the present regulations in order that Clerics of the class mentioned may not be debarred from promotion?
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  held that England had no special interest in Egpyt, except in so far as that country was the high road to our Indian possessions. Their only possible difficulties, therefore, in connexion with Egypt must have reference to the possession and working of the Suez Canal, and he could not help saying that they might have appropriated it if they had not exhibited that absurd commercial jealousy which was now charged upon France. So far, however, from M. de Lesseps having a jealousy of English commerce, he (Sir Edward Watkin) could say from personal knowledge that he had ever wished to cooperate with England as his best customer, and that he was willing to accept our assistance with a view to the improvement of that great work. There was no doubt that Lord Palmerston, in particular, had shown a remarkable prejudice
 520
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member-is exceeding the licence of debate.
 SIR HENRY HAVELOCK  said, he had listened with satisfaction to the remarks of the noble Lord when he enumerated the advantages which belonged to the position of sergeants in the Army; but he had not heard the noble Lord say anything with regard to the corresponding
 545
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  reminded the House that very often cases occurred in which no counsel or attorney was employed, and the Judge was called upon to exercise the multifarious functions of jury, counsel, and attorney. Hon. Members would be able to imagine the confusion likely to arise, if a Judge who was called upon to examine a Welsh farmer, or publican, was not able to understand the language he heard. In regard to interpreters, he observed that where cases had come before him and an interpreter was engaged, the first question was, who should pay the interpreter? He (Sir Eardley Wilmot) generally
 535
 SIR JOHN GRAY : I am very sorry that I should be said to exceed the licence of debate, but I scrupulously avoided—["Oh, oh!" and  laughter
 SIR JOHN GRAY : I wish to assure the noble Lord that nothing could be further from my intention than to say anything that could possibly be personally offensive, and if I said anything in violation of the rules of debate, I apologize to this House—nay, to him—for saying it; because I should think it improper of a Member of this House to disregard its Rules. But, with all due respect for the noble Lord—and I have much respect for him personally, much respect for his family, and great respect for his position as a Minister of the Crown—with all due respect, however, to the noble Lord I do affirm—subject, of course, to your decision, Sir—that for a Minister to use a threat of this sort to a claimant for justice at the Bar of this House—to assert that a man in the position of a Prince; a man who has been recognized at the Court of Victoria as a Prince; a man who has been presented to our Sovereign as a Prince; a man who is received at the
 584 585 "Undistinguished they live, till they learn to "betray."
 SIR JOHN GRAY : I think the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and also the noble Lord the Under Secretary for India, have used very extraordinary arguments. The hon. Member who has just sat down has expressed a strong conviction that whenever a Committee should sit upon this case, if ever it did—and he also thought the House would never consent to a Committee—that the decision of that Committee must necessarily be against the Nawab. Now, if that be the case—if there is such a conviction in the hon. Gentleman's mind, and if there be such a conviction in the minds of hon. Members who take part with him, surely the plain course would be to say—"Let us get rid of this case; let us investigate the case; let us hear what can be said for and against it; let the whole trial be had impartially and judicially, and not with a partizan spirit; let each point be stated, and examined, and adjudicated upon by an impartial Committee of this House—as impartial an Assembly as ever sat in any country in the world." Let that be done, and hon. Gentlemen on this side who advocate the case will be satisfied. If two parties in private life have a controversy, and they are so advised, the merits of their respective claims can be ascertained by trial at law. If one of them objects to such an arbitration of the ease, he practically condemns himself
 582 583
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could assure the hon. Member for Limerick that he fully agreed with the statement that the question was one which ought to be considered. In point of fact, however, it had been considered, and was continually attracting the attention of the Government, and it had always received from the Government that attention which was its due. The Government fully recognized the importance of preventing any adulteration of articles sold under one name, but which were really of a different character; and orders had been sent out in the present week which would to a great extent meet the difficulty he had touched upon, but it was impossible for the Government absolutely to guarantee the quality of articles which passed through its hands. All they could undertake to do was, to make it secure that everything should be sent out with a true name and a true description. There was a complaint from one gentleman, who desired that Scotch spirits should not be sent out as Irish spirits, but looking at the whole country it was extremely difficult to maintain the distinction. The aim was, that the produce of a distillery should go out with the name of the distiller upon them; but it was impossible for the Government officers to follow the spirits up into the public-house or the grocer's
 600
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that the proposal which was originally made by the Government had reference in all parts of the United Kingdom to lunatic paupers who were placed in asylums outside the poorhouse, and it would hardly be consistent with the proposal that was made or with the Estimate formed that the Grant should be extended to any other class of pauper lunatics. He was, however, bound to admit that some of the representations made to Her Majesty's Government from Scotland seemed to show that the case of that country required to be more fully considered. There would be plenty of time for such consideration, as the Grant would not be payable until the end of the year and it would not be necessary to take the Vote until the expiration of the financial year. In the interim he should give his attention to the subject in communication with the authorities in Scotland.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, no provision had been made for the promotion of clerks of the first class at the ports mentioned by the hon. Member. The re-organization referred to did not embrace that question, and it was not the intention of the Board of Customs to make any proposal
 509
 SIR WATKIN W. WYNN  observed that there was a great difficulty in regard to interpreters, and also a great waste of time. He know of two appointments of Welsh speaking Judges, which had given general satisfaction in the districts in which they administered justice. It was a curious fact, that on one side of the boundary the people spoke Welsh, and those on the other side English.
 MR. DYKE   moved "That Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a Member to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Launceston in the room of James Henry Deakin whose election has been determined to be void."
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, one gratifying result of the discussion had been to show the importance of giving to the Government as much power as possible to inspect cattle both at the ports of embarcation in Ireland and at the ports at which they were disembarked in England and Scotland. On that point the Lord President of the Council was taking very active steps, in conjunction with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to carry into effect what seemed to be the wish of the House. The Lord President was also giving attention to the question of improving and inspecting the railway trucks used in the conveyance of cattle, and he hoped good results would follow from the steps to be taken in reference to this matter also. With regard to the general question of the treatment of cattle diseases, he should say nothing at that late hour—in the first place, because it was not raised by the Motion of the hon. Member for Forfarshire (Mr. Barclay), and, in the second, because there existed wide difference of opinion among competent authorities on the subject both in that House and out of it. The best authorities were divided on the question whether foot-and-mouth disease should be dealt with by the Government at all; and surely, in face of that great contradiction of opinion, it was not desirable at present to take action upon this branch of the subject. All he could say was that the Lord President would anxiously co-operate with the Irish Government, so as to secure as far as possible similarity of regulations with regard to cattle disease in the two countries. The Lord President would also keep steadily in view the one great principle, that the great object of checking cattle disease was to provide a supply of food for the people rather than to promote
 598
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, that he had taken the opportunity of communicating with Mr. Cope, R.A., with reference to the covering with glass the eight frescoes in the passage leading from the House of Lords, who expressed his conviction that the glazing of the frescoes might be desirable. There would be no objection to the course proposed by his hon. Friend, provided Mr. Cope would consent to re-touch the pictures in the parts which had become deteriorated by exposure. He felt sure Mr. Cope would be happy to undertake that, and as soon as it was done he (Lord Henry Lennox) would give orders for the frescoes to be covered with glass.
 THE CHAIEMAN  said, that when a similar question had been raised at the last sitting, he had entertained some doubt whether the hon. Baronet could put such an Amendment without an express notification of the consent of the Crown. In the last century it had been the practice to signify the consent of the Crown to such an Amendment when reported to the House. And it was now not unusual to postpone such a notification—without which a Bill thus amended could not pass—until even a later stage. He did not, therefore, think—although the point was not altogether clear—that he should be warranted in stopping the discussion of such an Amendment in the Committee.
 MR. GOLDSMID  must express his regret that the Government did not see their way to bring in a Bill to settle the question this year. Matters of this
 644
 COLONEL BAETTELOT  said, that in his part of the country there were large tracts of land belonging to different copyholders. The underwood on them was the property of the copyholder and was rated to the poor, but the timber was not rated. He was not anxious to see this timber rated, though it was the property of the lord of the manor; but when his right hon. Friend touched commons, he thought he should go a little further, and say whether timber on copyhold estates should not be subject to rates so far as the land on which it stood was concerned.
 MR. GOLDSMID  wished the words to be kept as they stood, as being the best solution arrived at as the result of two Sessions of experience.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, if the right hon. Gentleman could find other words better than those in sub-section ( c
 MR. GOLDSMID  pointed out that the Proviso was so framed that it would be most perplexing to assessment committees.
 COLONEL CORBETT  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 15, after "tin" to insert "lead."
 MR. BEISTOWE  moved the following clause:—
 (Repeal of 6 and 7 Vict. c. 36.) "The Act of the Session of the sixth and seventh years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter thirty-six, intituled 'An Act to exempt from County, Borough, Parochial, and other Local Hates, Land and Buildings occupied by Scientific or Literary Societies,' so far as relates to England, is hereby repealed as from the commencement of this Act."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, I should not have risen at this stage of
 673 passed
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, one of its objects was to assimilate the law of evidence which should be admissible in cases of divorce in Scotland to what it was in England. The other object was to allow evidence in Sheriff Courts taken by shorthand writers; but, as to the mode in which this should be done, he had some doubts, and it could be discussed in Committee.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  wished to remind the House that that was an important Bill, because it proposed to apply £150,000 out of the Consolidated Fund, and £200,000 had already gone in the same direction.
 COLONEL BRISE  thought that if land were used for timber and also grow underwood, the assessment committee should have the opportunity of determining that the taxation should follow the rate, either as to saleable underwood or of land in its natural state.
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY  said, he did not wish to do any mischief. As the right hon. Gentleman had held forth the hope of a speedy abolition of slavery on the Coast, he should be sorry to press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY  said, what he intended to express was that it would be a parti-coloured Protectorate—half-free and half-slave.
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY , in rising to move, as an Amendment, to leave out from the word "That" to the end of the Question, in order to add the words—
 "In the opinion of this House, no arrangements for the government of the territories on the Gold Coast will be satisfactory which involve the recognition of slavery in any form," 608 609 non possumus non possumus non possumus nolumus 610 611 612 613 614 Le Nil 615
 MR. G. MONCKTON , in moving as an Amendment, to leave out sub-sections 1 and 2, said, he did so with the view of eliciting from the Government a more satisfactory explanation with respect to the rating of plantations and game, on which it appeared to him that the measure would press unfairly.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that assessment committees had found no difficulty in dealing with saleable underwoods. Old trees and ornamental timber ought not to be rated, because the value of them could be realized only twice in
 MR. G. MONCKTON  proposed, as an Amendment, that the assessment should be based on the value of the land for agricultural purposes. The assessment committee should not take into account the amount the shooting would realize if actually put into the market.
 LORD ESLINGTON  said, that if it were just to depart from the principle in the case of tin and copper mines, it was equally just to depart from it in the case of lead mines.
 LORD ESLINGTON  said, after what the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, it was evident the Committee should either reject the Amendment, or they would lose the Bill. He did not want to lose the Bill, as it would bring under taxation a good deal of property which was now exempt, and he would therefore urge his hon. Friend to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  thought it better that the whole subject should be allowed to remain over for the present.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  said, the House had been for 15 years trying to settle this question, and he hoped they would go on a little longer.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, the Government of India were requested in July last year to prepare what it is hoped will be a final account of the Banda and Kirwee Prize Fund. Some questions raised by the prize agents with reference to the accounts were sent to
 606
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  moved, as an Amendment, in line 27, to insert after the word "rabbits" the words "or of fishing."
 LORD HENEY SCOTT  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 25, before the clause, to insert the words—
 "(1.) The gross rateable value of the land shall he estimated so as to include the value of the right of fowling or shooting, or of taking or killing game or rabbits, or of fishing (hereinafter referred to as the right of sporting)."
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  hoped his hon. Friend would not divide, and for this reason—he did not think anybody objected to being assessed for game; but in his (Lord Henry Scott's) view, it would be best included in the gross estimated value of land. But as that was not exactly the view of the hon. Gentleman, they would have an opportunity of testing it on Clause 6, wherein an Amendment of his own stood on that point. He should be sorry to be a member of an assessment committee if the game were not included in the gross estimated value of land.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  thought Crown property ought to be put on the same footing as other property. He, however, saw the difficulty of the position in which the Government was placed. If the rating of Crown property was to be introduced into the Bill, it could not be done by way of Amendment. The Government appealed with great force to the Committee to allow the matter to stand on its present footing for a year, when, as he understood, they would again deal with it; and he therefore hoped the hon. Baronet would not take up a position of antagonism to the Government by pressing his Amendment at that time.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT , who had an Amendment on the Paper, in page 1, line 23, to leave out sub-section 2, said,
 653
 MR. PELL  said, he understood it to be the intention of the Government that in the case of land growing brushwood below the timber, it was to be assessed as land used solely for the growth of underwood. There would then be a manifest injustice done in the same Union to those proprietors who chose to devote their land solely to the sale of underwood. He preferred the Bill as originally drawn, for it appeared to him that the Amendment would leave a large quantity of land in England devoted partly to timber and partly to underwood, either wholly exempted or very lightly taxed. He hoped the Amendment would be withdrawn.
 MR. PELL  said, he did not admit that the effect of the Bill would be to impose fresh burdens on real property, and did not see how the Government could have done otherwise than they had done in the matter. The Bill would simply do what the occupiers of land had long asked the Government to do—namely, make certain land contribute to the poor rates which had hitherto been exempted. He trusted that the Government would adhere to their proposal.
 MR. PELL  in moving, as an Amendment, to add the following Proviso at end of clause:—
 "Provided that when the occupier of a plantation or a wood is, at the passing of this Act, liable to he rated to the county or highway rate in respect of such plantation or wood, the value shall he estimated in like manner as it would at the passing of this Act he estimated for such county or highway rate,"
 MR. PELL  hoped the sub-section would not be withdrawn, unless they had some equivalent provision.
 MR. PELL  remarked that there were a great many rights of fishing held by persons who were not owners or occupiers of the soil. He was in that case himself, and he thought it would be well to leave the word "fishing" out.
 MR. PELL  would be sorry to see the Amendment withdrawn. There would be little change made in the assessment, if it were taken all through the country. He could not conceive that in places where the occupier merely walked over his land with his gun on his arm, any change was required. In some cases, the game would not be worth more than 4 d
 MR. PELL  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 33, after "right;" to insert "unless such occupier shall, by notice to the assessment committee, require them to assess such right as a separate hereditament, and to rate him separately as the occupier thereof."
 MR. PELL  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 35, the omission of the words "subject to any contract to the contrary," which were inserted parenthetically in that part of the clause which gave a right to the tenant of the land to deduct from his rent such portion of any poor or other local rate as was paid by him in respect of any increase in the assessment by reason of the right of sporting not being severed from the occupation of the land.
 MR. PELL  hoped the Amendment would be pressed to a division.
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken says the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Poole is one with respect to which both sides of the House are agreed. If he means by that, that throughout the House generally there is an unanimity of opinion that it is not only the duty, but the pride of this country to discourage slavery in every way and form possible, then I admit the right hon. Gentleman is right, and that there is an unanimity of opinion on both sides of the House. But when we are asked to accept a Resolution, it becomes necessary that we should examine its terms with somewhat of criticism. Now, I confess, when I read this Amendment, I am at a loss to find in it that precision of meaning which it is so desirable should exist when a Resolution is to be unanimously adopted. We are asked to declare—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, no arrangements for the government of the territories on the Gold Coast will he satisfactory which involve the recognition of slavery in any form." 638 639
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has referred to a leading article
 607 The Standard
 MR. CLARE READ  said, if the Amendment of the hon. Baronet was carried there would be very little of the right of sporting to be assessed, for the pur-
 656
 MR. CLARE READ  said, there could be no doubt on the point of law, that whenever the right of sporting was let to the tenant, or was held by the landlord, the right was assessable, and was generally assessed.
 MR. E. JENKINS : Sir, seeing the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury in his place, I wish to ask him a Question of which I have given him private Notice. I wish to call his attention to an article which appeared in  The Standard "Shall we do the Brown-Mackenzie Ministry any injustice in supposing that this prospect was held out deliberately as a bait to the American Government—that they have with fore-knowledge bargained away the independence of their country—that they have designed the Reciprocity Treaty as the instrument for 'cutting the painter?' Taken in connection with their policy in regard to the Pacific Railway, it is hard to resist the conviction that the present Canadian Ministry have conceived the idea of separating from the Empire and of attaching the Dominion to the United States. The money they have grudged to the construction of the Pacific Railway we find them willing to contribute towards the extension of the canals intended for the convenience of the American trade. When it is an Imperial scheme they are called upon to support we perceive them to be cold and niggardly. When it is a project for the immediate aggrandisement of the provinces which support their policy, involving prospective benefits to the States, we discover them to be liberal to prodigality. It is impossible that there can be any other than one conclusion from all this. The policy of the present so-called Liberal Government of Canada aims at the speedy solution of the ties which bind that country to Great Britain."
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  considered game a luxury that should be paid for. He should not have the least objection to pay for his game, and it would be very satisfactory to the people of his parish to know that he had paid. No doubt, there was a deal of pleasure in the exercise, pleasure in the shooting, and the pleasure of giving game a way. There should be a special reservation to prevent the tenant being injured by the person who took the game. They ought also to be careful about rabbits. There they were, 650 men trying to turn rabbits out of the country; and before the rabbits had turned a man out of Parliament, they should pay this little rate, whatever it was, for a great pleasure and great luxury.
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  also suggested that the sub-section should be retained, at least provisionally, until some better proposal should be found to take its place.
 COLONEL EGEETON LEIGH  said, there were cases in which a wood was almost valueless because the underwood had been taken away, and the trees were not full grown.
 MR. J. S. HARDY  said, it appeared to him that many regarded that as an additional tax on the land. That was a fallacy, for it was merely an additional subject of rating. If the game let for £100 a-year, the rating on that was no additional burden on the land. As respected the particular Amendment before
 660
 MR. GOSCHEN : I never suggested it. I did suggest that the hon. Member
 621
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that he had left out an important line in the middle of a passage in the Despatch.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that it would be sufficient if the hon. Gentleman would read the passage to the House completely, to which he had referred.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, who had addressed the House in a most able, amusing, and good-tempered speech, had alluded to the debate or last Thursday, and it was, therefore, necessary briefly to follow him into that part of the question. He hoped, however, the House would not lose sight of the very important nature of the Amendment before it, by discussing the relative conduct of hon. Gentlemen on either side of the House. With regard to himself, he entirely denied—and he hoped the hon. Member would accept his denial—that there was any difference of opinion between his right hon. Friend the Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) and himself. They both approved the policy of the Government in remaining on the Gold Coast, and he (Mr. Goschen) had a right to complain that the hon. Member did not quote any part of his speech. [Mr. J. LOWTHER said he was unable to obtain a copy of the speech.] The newspapers were at the disposal of the hon. Member, and in every one of them both himself and his right hon. Friend were reported to have expressed a general approval of the policy of Her Majesty's Government in reference to the question. It was, therefore, unfair to say that any difference of opinion existed between himself and his right hon. Friend, who both warned the Government in almost the same terms with regard to the question of slavery. The hon. Gentleman had also stated that when the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. M'Arthur) spoke on the question of slavery, he ought to be heard with respect; but it was matter of fact that on Thursday evening the hon. Member was refused a hearing by
 626 ipso facto 627 628 629
 MR. GOSCHEN  explained that he did not allude to the Memorandum of 1857 as governing the relations between this country and the Gold Coast. What he asked was, whether the Government accepted the spirit embodied in that document.
 MR. GOSCHEN  acquiesced in the Motion; but drew attention that it was a breach of the rule to take no Opposed Business after 1 o'clock.
 MR. SANDFORD , in moving to add the following words at the end of the clause:—
 "Provided that the rights of fishing mentioned in this Act shall extend to all rights of fishing other than public rights, whether the same be held, used, or enjoyed cither exclusively or in common with any other person or persons, or whether they he general or limited to any particular kind or kinds of fish, and also to all rights incidental to the taking, culture, or propaga-
 665
 MR. SANDFORD  protested against the way in which Bills were passed through Committee. Having taken counsel's opinion on the clause, he was in a position to say that as it stood, oyster fisheries would not be rateable under it, and when he proposed to insert words which would make them rateable, the Government declined to accept his Amendment. It was idle, therefore, to press the matter against the Government, but he believed that if the matter was left as it was, it would lead to endless litigation to the benefit of the lawyers.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he was sorry he could not consent to the addition of the words proposed. He did not think them necessary for the purpose the hon. Gentleman had in view. If the fisheries were rateable, they would be rateable without the words proposed. If the oyster culture were attached to the soil of the parish, it would be rateable, and if not, he did not think the words proposed would make it so.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he would remind the Committee that they had a little wandered from the subject of the Amendment, and were really discussing the detailed plan contained in Clause 6.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he could not accept the Amendment. The section as now framed was less harsh as against wood owners than the provisions of the Bill of last Session.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in moving, as an Amendment, to omit sub-section ( c
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he did not see any objection to the Amendment, considering the peculiarity of beech wood.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought the noble Lord would do well not to press the Amendment, because the words would not cover what was required. But even if there were no objection to the language, it was already the duty of the assessment committee to take everything into account in the gross estimated value, except, of course, the right of shooting. The language of the clause he was going to propose would really have the effect the noble Lord desired. It was the duty of the assessment committee to estimate the land at its gross value, and if they did not, they would not be doing their duty.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, his reason for assenting to the Proviso was, that it would bring the woods in at a much higher valuation, to which they already submitted, than the valuation laid down by this Bill, but he did not think the matter one worth much discussion, and he would recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw it.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he had no objection to the clause if it met with the approval of the Committee, but he thought it rather beyond the scope of the Bill, as it would introduce quite a new principle. It would more properly-come within the scope of a valuation Bill than of a rating Bill, and such a Bill he hoped to introduce next year.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he could not agree with the clause, because he believed it would be taking a step in a wrong direction. Many of these buildings to which the clause referred were most valuable property, and it would not be just to the parishes in which they were situated to exempt them from rating.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  opposed the clause. There would be an opportunity on another occasion of dealing with the question.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that he felt bound by the pledge he had given at an earlier period of the evening, and he must therefore press upon the Committee to strike out the sub-section.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the clause was not intended to refer to future contracts, which were reserved by common sense and common right. He had no objection to the words being omitted, and to insert instead in the terms of the mining clause, "unless he has specifically contracted to pay such rate."
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  objected to the Amendment. It was not the occupier, but the owner who should be rated. He believed the proposed alteration instead of working beneficially, would
 670
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  objected to the alteration of the clause. The Amendment would only increase the difficulty in case of any difference between landlord and tenant, rather than the reverse.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 34, after the word "estimated" there should be inserted the words "but not otherwise," the object of the Amendment being to prevent a fancy valuation being placed upon sporting ground.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he did not see any harm in the insertion of the word "fishing."
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he could not agree with the insertion of the words, and did not believe they were necessary. It was quite impossible to blink the fact that the right of shooting was rated on some farms, and there were others where it ought to be rated. If there really was no shooting of value, it ought not to be taken into account.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, his objection to the Amendment was, that it touched a part of a great question without touching the whole. It must be remembered that, when he introduced the Bill, he said it was necessary for him to take the Bill as it passed through the late Parliament, with the omission of the clause relating to Government property, which he had not had time to consider, and on that account he proposed an alternative arrangement which seemed to be acceptable to the House at that time. The woodlands in the occupation of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests would pay the rate, and, under those circumstances, it would be better for the hon. Baronet to wait and see whether the arrangements worked satisfactorily. Wisely or unwisely, the Government had deliberately excluded from the Bill all mention of Crown property; they had confined it to three classes of property—mines, woods, and game; and he therefore objected to introducing into the Bill in this way something with which it had nothing to do. A sufficient protest had been already made against the exclusion of Crown lands, which would include a vast amount of property beyond the scope of this Bill, and he intreated the hon. Member
 643
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that his hon. Friend's Amendment had the advantage of being straightforward, the object which the hon. Member had in view being to strike out from the Bill all mention of plantations and game. It was rather late then to raise such an objection, which wont to the principle of the Bill. It should have been raised on the second reading. It was not intended to enable the assessment committee to go on a man's estate and ascertain the annual value of the timber he had sold, nor was it intended that an occupier should be rated for game that was practically of no value at all. He believed the Amendments he intended to propose would meet the objections of his hon. Friend, and therefore he hoped he would not put the Committee to the trouble of dividing.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, his right hon. Friend was mistaken in supposing that saleable underwood would be increased in rateable value by reason of timber growing thereon.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  then proposed, in line 21, the omission of the words, "or for both such purposes," at the end of sub-section 1, the effect of which Amendment would be to exempt from rating any land used for a plantation or a wood and for the growth of saleable underwood.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he believed it would be good policy to do nothing which would stimulate the re-mature destruction of growing timber. It was a question of degree, and it was impossible for the House to lay down the exact point at which saleable underwood ceased to be such, but the assessment committees would easily do it. What the parishioners desired, was to have the land rated. The great mass of saleable underwoods were thoroughly understood to be worth so much per acre per annum, and they were assessed
 651
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, it was not with regard to the clause, but he had a verbal Amendment on Clause 6 which would show what the intentions of Government were.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : They do not go so far as that.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, his belief was, that if the words had not been inserted in the Bill, no one would have ever missed them, or suggested their insertion. If the Amendment were agreed to, it could be made clear when they came to Clause 4 that all lands used for the growth of timber and underwood were to be rated.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  moved, as an Amendment, in page 1, line 21, to insert after "purposes" the words "and not subject to any rights of common."
 MR. BIRLEY  said, it would be more convenient for the House and the Government to have the principle of rating Crown property embodied in an Act of Parliament; but he agreed with those who recommended the hon. Baronet to withdraw his Amendment, because the proposal of the Government might fairly be accepted as a tentative measure.
 MR. BULWER  could see no necessity whatever for the Proviso.
 MR. BULWER  said, he would really put it to hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House whether it was worth while to persist in this opposition, to what was, as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire had just told them, a very trifling matter. Everybody know that if there was one subject more than another which led to heart-burnings and ill-feeling in the country, between landlords, tenants, and labourers, it was the subject of shooting and game. He quite agreed with what the hon. and gallant Member for Mid-Cheshire had said, that although there was the pleasure and amusement of shooting game, there was also the still greater pleasure of giving it away; and if he might offer a suggestion upon that, it would be that all landed proprietors should follow the example of the hon. and gallant Member, and indulge more freely in the latter luxury. If they would be content to preserve a little less, and would give away a little more, he could promise them that they would hear very little about the game laws. As to the question of rating, if the owner of land were also the occupier, he would be rateable not only for the land, but for the game also; and that whether he let the right of shooting to another or retained it himself; and he (Mr. Bulwer) could not see any reason or justice why, if the owner let the land but retained the right of shooting, he should not continue to pay rates for what he so retained. As he read the Bill, it was proposed to rate the tenant of the land for the game in the first instance, and to give him the power to deduct from his rent the value of the right of shooting when severed from his occupation—that was, if the assessment committee put any value upon it. He ventured to think it was not politic for hon. Gentlemen to object to this. A tenant who now occupied a farm and paid heavily in rates, might often see his landlord carry away from it cartloads of game, send it to market as valuable property, and get the money for it; and he (Mr. Bulwer) could not help saying that it was not judicious for the landlord in such a case to object to contribute to the rates. He appealed to the hon. Baronet the Member for North
 663
 MR. LOWTHER  then read the passage referred to, supplementing his previous omission thus—
 "The Imperial Act of the 3rd and 4th William IV., c. 73, which has made all the Queen's dominions free soil, and by which every person in Lagos has been free since the occupation." "But the readiest and most effectual way of escaping from all these embarrassments is to confine British territory within the smallest compass which may be practicable; and if it should be found that British law cannot be fully established in the island of Lagos, and in the towns occupied by us, we must confine the area of British territory, as at the Gold Coast, to the land occupied by the Government buildings, constituting the rest of the territory acquired from Docemo, a Protectorate where our influence could be used to soften and gradually destroy slavery, without our authority being called on to abolish it." 623 "The position of the British Government in the Protectorate is that of influence over people who are not British subjects; and while every means should be taken to induce the natives to desist from such practices as those reported by the Acting Administrator, it does not appear to me that it is advisable to interfere by direct legislation." bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 624 625
 MR. LOWTHER  said, he did not pretend to read the whole Despatch, but he was ready to do so if the right hon. Gentleman so desired.
 MR. J. LOWTHER  only desired to show that he was not the author of the phrase and was not responsible for describing the system as domestic slavery. He would now call attention to a despatch written in July of the year 1841 by a noble Lord, whose opinion was always received with the utmost respect at both sides of the House, and whose authority naturally had great weight with hon. Gentlemen opposite. Lord John Russell, in a Despatch dated the 14th of July, 1841, to Governor Maclean, said—
 "Her Majesty's dominion on the Coast is, as I understand, of very narrow local range. If I am correctly informed, it extends only to the forts themselves. Whatever influence Great Britain may exercise beyond those precincts, my supposition is that beyond the very walls of the forts there is no sovereignty, properly speaking, vested in the British Crown, but that the whole adjacent country is subject to the dominion of the native Powers. My information on this subject may be defective or erroneous; but if I am rightly informed respecting it, it follows that within the fort of Cape Coast Castle a different rule of law regarding slavery may prevail from that which exists beyond those limits. Within them the Statute 3 and 4 William IV., cap. 73, is unquestionably in force. Beyond them it is not so.…. With regard to persons living in the vicinity but not within the British dominion, the same rule does not apply. If the laws or usages of those countries tolerate slavery, we have no right to set aside those laws or usages except by persuasion, negotiation, and other peaceful means." "But there is a serious question which has been pending since our occupation of Lagos, which your appointment as Governor and Com-
 622
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he desired at once to refer to a particular part of the speech of the hon. and learned Member. Two speeches which, with the indulgence of the House, he had delivered, had been discussed by the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had remarked, with regard to them, that they possessed one characteristic in common—namely, great brevity. Now, brevity was the soul of wit, and in listening to the hon. and learned Member he really began to hope that he had himself been
 616 "Unhappily, domestic slavery was an institution on the Gold Coast. Some hon. Members would say it was the easiest thing in the world to put down that or any other institution. He regretted that many who on other subjects were rational and reasonable, apparently lost all self-possession and practical sagacity on the subject of slavery, and diminished the value of their counsels by laying down crude theories which would not stand the test of experience. If we were to insist on the total and immediate abolition of slavery on the Gold Coast, the Government must ask, not for £35,000, but for a sum in excess of the cost of the war against the King of Ashantee—they must ask for something like a million either to compensate the owners of the slaves or to maintain troops for carrying on another war. It would be perfectly impossible to put down an institution like this, which had taken so firm a hold upon the minds and habits of the people, without a largo occupying force and comprehensive measures of repression. In reply to those who said we should not consider any of these questions in dealing with a matter of principle, he would say he would not advocate any attempt to repeat in West Africa an experiment which had been tried not many thousand miles from the House, in governing one country according to the ideas of that country when they ran counter, not only to the ideas of the majority of the people of the United Kingdom, but also to the first and elementary prince-
 617 The Times 618 619 620 "It is to be remembered that our compulsory authority is strictly limited, both by our title and by the instructions of the Colonial Office to the British Forts, within which no one but the Governor, his suite, and the garrison reside, and that the magistrates are strictly prohibited from exercising jurisdiction even over the natives and districts immediately under the influence and protection of the forts. All jurisdiction over the natives beyond that point must, therefore, be considered as optional." "Their relation to the English Crown should be not the allegiance of subjects, to which we have no right to pretend and which it would entail an inconvenient responsibility to possess, but the deference of weaker Powers to a stronger and more enlightened neighbour, whose protection and counsel they seek, and to whom they are bound by certain definite obligations." "In this arrangement we should find the solution of our difficulty in regard to domestic slavery."
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he felt bound to join in the appeal to the hon. Baronet not to press his Amendment, which addressed itself only to a part of the subject—namely, Crown property under the control of the Commissioners of "Woods and Forests and did not deal with property under the Admiralty, the War Office, and the Civil Departments of the State. Since that question was last dis-
 647
 MR. STANSFELD  said, if there was one thing which appeared to him in this case in a stranger light than another, it was that there was no foundation for the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member, and that if there was any class of men who wanted the clause, it was the proprietors of land and the friends of sporting. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had said that it was not advisable that they should encourage the letting of the right of sporting. Well, but in that very clause there was a clear distinction drawn. The assessment would be upon the value of sporting, which he had no doubt would be judged in reference to the average custom and right of the neighbourhood. ["No, no!"] Yes, by an assessment committee, consisting of occupying farmers in the neighbourhood. He would lay down this broad proposition, that it was in the interest of those who desired to enjoy these rights—and who believed upon the whole it was for the benefit of the country that those rights should continue to be enjoyed—it was in their interest that the rights of sporting should come under assessment. Would not the hon. and gallant Gentleman agree with him that it was a wise
 658
 MR. STANSFELD  complained that no Notice had been given of the Amendment and that it ought not to be adopted. He contended that when land was used for the two purposes before mentioned it should be rated in respect of both of such uses.
 MR. STANSFELD , with reference to the remarks of the hon. Baronet the Member for North Wilts, denied that either the rating Bill of last year, or the one under discussion, imposed fresh burdens on real property. They only dealt with certain property hitherto exempt from rating. The contributions in respect of Government property, as now proposed, would be a considerable casement in the localities where they applied. Neither of the Bills increased the charges on land, but only redistributed them more fairly.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he did not understand that the Government had come to the conclusion not to rate land, for according to sub-section ( a
 MR. STANSFELD  approved the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, that though he hoped his hon. Friend would not press the Motion to a division, he wished to add that last year he proposed to repeal all exemptions.
 MR. STANSFELD  recommended the withdrawal of the clause, which he agreed was fitter for an assessment than a rating Bill.
 MR. DODSON  said, he wished to point out that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sclater-Booth), if he did not take care, would find himself in a technical difficulty. If he struck out the sub-section now, and afterwards failed to find a satisfactory substitute, he would not be able to re-insert the sub-section on the Report, because it would be in effect a rating clause, and it would, therefore, be necessary to re-commit the Bill.
 MR. FLOYER  said, the Amendment was too narrow. He wished to draw attention to the arrangements often made in his county between landlord and tenant, whereby the former went two or three times a-year to shoot partridges, and the rest of the year the tenant had the option of going over the land. It was not fair to assess the tenant in that case, and it was not fair to assess the landlord. That was one of the difficulties with which they had to deal. The general principle of the Bill was the right one. He did not think, as a general rule, game was at all considered in the assessment of a farm when held by tenants having at the same time the right of shooting. That was not the custom of the country. If it were, the case would be quite conclusive. If tenants were assessed whenever they had the right of shooting, and, in other cases, the landlords, whenever they had the right of shooting, he quite granted
 664
 MR. WALTER  thought that the Committee could not possibly assent to the Amendment. He was not one of those who let shooting, and he did not see any harm in rating game, and he had no right on that account to be exempt from any fair rate which an assessment committee might assess. It was not for carrying a gun over his land that a man was rated, but it was a rate levied for the use and enjoyment which the land carried with it, and for the increased value which the land would in cones-
 655
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not understand the necessity for that Amendment. If land with underwood upon it was increased in value on account of the timber on it, why the necessity of the exemption? Common land could not be assessed at all, as it was in nobody's occupation; and if there was not to be a separate assessment on account of the timber upon it, what was the necessity for exempting it?
 MR. HENLEY  trusted that if the right hon. Gentleman meant that saleable underwood should not be increased
 650
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made a magnificent offer of a large sum of money; but he (Mr. Henley) desired to have some clearer light than had yet been thrown upon the subject of the distribution of these charges, as in some districts the relief to be got from the contributions from Government property must be very small. Those where the dockyards were situated would get the lion's share. There could be no objection to rating property hitherto exempt, provided it were done on a fair and uniform principle. The Bill, however, did nothing of the kind. It was not a Bill assessing property not assessed before, but a Bill assessing some kinds unfairly, and leaving others of the same value unassessed. All should be taken fairly; but the Bill did anything but that.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Bill would have one effect, and that was to increase the assessable value of rural land, as contra-distinguished from town land. That was the great advantage farmers would get. This was certain—that whether they paid a halfpenny, a penny, twopence, or sixpence an acre, the aggregate would come to something, and would be an increase of value of the rural districts as against the urban districts. The hon. Member for South Norfolk would appreciate that extremely. The next weighty question was, who would pay it? It was very trifling. The whole concern was trifling; but when people came to find that there was a little deduction, what would be the natural consequence? There would be a general revision of letting. Whether
 661
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  was of opinion that there was but little to choose between the policies adopted by the two great parties in the House relative to those West African proceedings. Successive Committees of that
 634 employé "The Committee of Merchants, being established by despatch, may be abrogated by despatch. …. The judicial officer having to execute beyond the Queen's dominions justice not law, his jurisdiction does not require a legal basis—an Act of Parliament might render it legal within its local range of authority; but how to frame such an Act is, I suppose, an insoluble problem. We are about to make an usurpation which the goodness of our motives and the necessity of the case are to justify, and I suppose that such a justification would not be improved by an abortive attempt to give a semblance of law to that which is lawless. If the white Judge is fit for his employment, he will not be critical about his com mission. …. It would answer no good purpose to trouble Lord Stanley with an argument to prove that the recommendations of the Committee are wrong, not in details, but in their essence. …. Put to what end trouble you with a discussion of the nature of those African settlements to our commerce, or that their utility in preventing the slave trade is enormously exaggerated—that, in fact, they are nothing else than factories kept up at the expense of the nation at large for the profit of half-a-dozen inconsiderable merchants." &c. 635
 MR. MUNTZ  said, there was evidently a strong feeling on both sides of the House in favour of retaining the sub-section, and as the right hon. Gentleman opposite had pledged himself to omit it, they could easily extricate him from his difficulty by going to a division and voting for the words as they stood. The right hon. Gentleman would then keep his word to the House, and the House would be doing what both sides required.
 MR. MUNTZ  trusted the clause would not be pressed, as it would be a breach of good faith if the Government should agree to it.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN , speaking for the Midland counties, said, the experience of the last 20 years had not been favourable to any revision of rents by the landlord. It was too difficult to get the land let on moderate and reasonable terms to make any such revision as the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire had spoken of. Was the burden likely to be so great as had been imagined? Suppose 2,000 acres of land were let at half-a-crown an acre for the right of shooting. ["Oh, oh!"] He could tell hon. Gentlemen opposite that he not only paid that rate himself, but could got that for it. At the same time he was putting an extreme case. Take a moderate estate of 2,500 acres, at half-a-crown per acre, it was only £312 that the owner would be rated upon, amounting to £15 on the average, and to those who knew what the expense of shooting was, it must be evident that the extra amount caused by such rating would be very little, certainly not such as to make it worth the while of Gentlemen interested to continue the discussion.
 MR. O'SHAUGHNESSY  expressed an opinion that the Bill was not quite satisfactory, and that a Select Committee was the best way of dealing with it.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved the following clause:—
 (Exemptions hitherto enjoyed by certain institutions.) "And whereas it is expedient to declare and give effect in law to the exemption hitherto enjoyed by the institutions hereinafter mentioned from liability to poor rates. Be it further enacted and declared, That no land, houses or buildings, or parts of houses or buildings in the United Kingdom used exclusively as a hospital or infirmary for the relief of the sick poor, or for the transaction of the business relating to such hospital or infirmary, and yielding no pecuniary profit to the governors, administrators, or other trustees thereof, shall be deemed to be rateable to poor rates or to any local rates whatsoever."
 MR. WHITBREAD  wished that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Ashley) would ask himself what would be the result if he pressed his Amendment to a division. That was a question upon which any division in the British Par-
 640
 MR. HALSEY  said, the hon. Gentleman might be willing to pay half-a-crown an acre for his shooting, but to him (Mr. Halsey), as a landlord, his estate might not be worth anything like that money. But because he might get half-a-crown an acre from some one else, if he were to let the shooting, it would be very unjust that he should be
 662
 MR. KNOWLES  said, he failed to see the justice of the Amendment before the Committee. If a man retained his own shooting, why ought he not to be rated? Everyone who had fishing or shooting ought to be rated on what it might be reasonably supposed to be let for. If the landlord went over his own estate with his gun in his hand, although there was no game liable to assessment, he failed to see the force of objection, because if there was no game it would not let for anything, and therefore would not be rateable. There should be no property whatever, whether shooting or fishing or any other real property, that should refuse to pay rates, but he did not think the Bill was at present in the best shape for that purpose.
 MR. HANKEY  asked the First Commissioner of Works, If there is any reason why the eight frescoes in the passage leading to the House of Lords should not be covered with glass, in the same way as the eight frescoes in the corresponding passage leading to the House of Commons, by which glazing the latter frescoes appear to have been considerably preserved; and, if there is no objection, whether he will give directions to have both sets of frescoes placed in the same position?
 MR. W. H. SMITH  moved that the Order for going into Committee on the
 674
 MR. BEACH  moved, as an Amendment in page 2, line 2, after "estimated," to leave out to end of sub-section ( a
 MR. BEACH  concurred in the objection of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stansfeld).
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to make a few observations on the speech of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Any question relating to slavery was one which came home to the honour of this country, and he believed there was on the present occasion a general desire on both sides of the House to be in perfect agreement with reference to it. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that he very much wondered that hon. Members sitting on the Opposition benches could in any way sanction the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Poole. The right hon. Gentleman himself, however, must, he thought, be rather glad that the Amendment had been moved, inasmuch as it had led the Under Secretary for the Colonies more clearly to describe the views entertained by the Government. The right hon. Gentleman could hardly be aware of the extent to which the House and the country were interested in the subject, and why, he would ask, under the circumstances, did the Government object to the Amendment? They might protest against such an Amendment being pressed upon them; but then, they could at once remove any difficulty wich might exist on that ground, by stating that in consequence of the fresh start which the late war had given us, there would for the future be no recognition of slavery in our West African Settlements under any form. He was aware of the difficulties which were connected with the question—difficulties which he was willing to admit the present had inherited from previous Governments. We had, however, gained great experience by the events of the late war, and all that the House now invited the Government to do was to take advantage of that experience, and not to think they were doing sufficient if they proceeded upon the old footing. There was one lesson, at all events, which we ought by this time to have learnt, and
 636 637
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he was sorry to differ from the remarks of the hon. Member for Berkshire, but he thought it an excessive hardship that an owner should be assessed on what anyone would give for the sporting. That would be an enormous injustice, for he knew numerous instances in which some absurd and fancy price would be given for the right to shoot near London. It would be absurd to fix the rate on that rent. He knew a case, not many miles from Windsor, where an eight-acre plot was let to a doctor, who paid for the right of shooting £100 a-year. The property had lately been sold to a neighbouring proprietor; but if that was to be taken as a test of its value, it would be very hard. As fishing was included, he would ask the Government for some details on that part of the question. He had served on assessment committees, and he found they were generally in the dark, and that, like juries appealing to a Judge, they always required to be told what to do. If they could assess the value of the fishing in the Serpentine, it would guide him in his neighbourhood, where the fishing was of the same kind and of about the same value. He knew that there were certain doctors who would pay a fabulous price for the chance of catching a gudgeon. He objected to the principle of the rate being calculated on whatever the thing would fetch in the market. He did not think that was a fair test.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  moved to report Progress.
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  moved, after Clause 9, to insert the following clause:—
 (Assessment of tithe.) "In the assessment of tithe (not being tithe the property of a lay improprietor) there shall he deducted from the gross value (for the purpose of calculating the rateable value) such sum as shall represent the average salary of one curate (the amount of such salary being certified by the bishop of the diocese in which the assessable property is situate), in addition to such other deductions as may be, on the passing of this Act, legally made in reduction of the gross value."
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  said, if it was thoroughly understood that the Government adopted the principle of the clause, he would agree to withdraw it.
 MR. GOLDNEY  hoped the Government would not adopt the principle, which was contrary to the general principle of the Bill.
 MR. GOLDNEY  remarked that there was nothing to prevent the landlord contracting with the tenant to pay all rates.
 MR. GOLDNEY  also contended that it was not necessary, and that if agreed to, the assessment committee would be placed in a difficulty, and be bound by what other county boards might determine should be the rateable value.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, that after the strong expression of opinion from both sides of the House, he felt he was bound hand and foot in the hands of the Philistines, and must make the best of it. He believed the Bill would work against the farmers' interest, and against the agricultural interest. Men who did not preserve game much, if they were rated by the assessment committee for that which was of little money value to them, would take care to have something for it. Men would preserve more if they were to be rated, would take care to have their money's worth; and he did not think it was politic or just to rate men for that which was of no value to them. The hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter) said men should pay for the right of sporting, if they only walked over the land. There were people in towns who would pay anything to walk over the land. Those who were landlords were rated to the mast-head. It was a gross injustice. He should ask leave to withdraw his Amendment, but at the same time he entered his strong protest against the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, that nobody had said anything against anyone who occupied the land beneficially being rated. All he said was that, supposing a tenant was rated at the full agricultural value, he saw no right to rate the land twice over, no matter how it was occupied. He did not know what amount of gratification the hon. Gentleman (Mr. J. S. Hardy) derived from game, or with what burden he was prepared to saddle himself; but it was a very hard thing that a man should be rated on a right which in some cases was absolutely valueless. If a man had land rated at the full value, they had no right to rate him over again for anything. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stansfeld) maintained that Clause 6 was almost entirely in favour of what he had been advocating, and that the rights of sporting were most tenderly dealt with. It was all the more important, then, to pass the Amendment, in order that the Bill might go on all fours. His Amendment was, that the rating should be extended to shooting and fishing when separated from the letting of land. If the landlord reserved the right of walking over his own land and the land of the tenants, and carrying a gun with him, was he to be rated for that? He was told Clause 6 would undo that. Therefore, the two clauses ought to be taken together.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON : Will those Amendments prevent a man being rated for his own shooting?
 SIR GORGE JENKINSON  moved, as an Amendment, in page 1, sub-section 2, line 23, after "when," to insert "separately rented and." Hard things had been said as to the objection of hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House to game being rated; but if the land was rated at the full agricultural value, no matter what the produce was, whether corn, game, or whatever it was, there could be no doubt that in such a valuation, the game was rated as well. If, then, the land was rated at the full value, by what right or justice could they rate a man for sporting? It was a piece of gross injustice. What would be the effect? It would subject a man who lived in a grass country, where the right of shooting was  nil nil 654
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, that if no more money was to be collected under the Bill in the shape of contributions from land, he could not see what was the use of the Bill at all. If the effect of the Bill had been to rate mines and Government property only, he should have said nothing against it; but the gist of it was to throw the burden on the shoulders of those owners who lived on their estates.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, it seemed to be forgotten that timber was paid for by succession duty. It had been stated on high authority, in evidence given before the Committee of this House, which he could not quote as it had not yet been laid on the Table, that it was highly impolitic to rate timber at all. The difficulty of rating it seemed to be a great one, which no one could solve. If timber was not to be rated by the Bill, there was no use discussing the way in which it was to be rated.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON , who had another Amendment on the Paper, consequent to, and depending upon, the Question before the Committee, asked the Chairman if at that stage he was at liberty to propose it?
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, the subsequent Amendment referred to, was in page 1, line 20, after "land," to insert "including Crown property." He was glad to hear the ruling just laid down. The Bill purported to amend
 642
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, he was willing, after the general expression of opinion which had been elicited, to withdraw his Amendment, but must enter his protest against the line of legislation which had been adopted in reference to this subject by the Government, as being too much in accordance with that of their Predecessors. The whole course of legislation in the matter from the time of Queen Elizabeth had been in the direction of extending the liabilities of real property. Unfortunately, there were not now so many hon. Members behind him to back him up on this question as there were last year. They were otherwise disposed of, and
 648
 MR. SPEAKER  ruled that a reference to a Select Committee could not, unless Notice of opposition was given, be considered Opposed Business, within the meaning of the Resolution of the House.
 MR. PEASE  said, that when the Bill was last in Committee there was a long discussion on this subject, and great dissatisfaction was expressed, principally on the Ministerial side of the House, with the proposal, or rather the want of proposal, on the part of the Government. He suggested that clauses of last year's Bill, possibly with some modifications, should be introduced; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer explained at length his scheme for relieving places that contained Government property by moans of a Vote in the Estimates. The scheme seemed to commend itself to the judgment of the House; but, personally, he still held a strong opinion, that the rating of Government property in an irregular way would be only a temporary expedient, and he would far rather the right hon. Gentleman had left the matter alone for a year or longer, until a well-digested plan could be brought up. It was erroneous in principle that any Government should ask for a certain sum of money to be placed in their hands to be distributed, upon certain rough rules it was true, but still on their responsibility; but, in the absence of any alternative scheme, the Committee could only acquiesce for the present in the proposal of the Government. He believed the hon. Baronet had the sympathy of the House with his Amendment; but at that late period of the Session he would advise him to postpone it.
 MR. PEASE  said, it seemed to him that they were agreed upon two important points—namely, that if land was used for growing timber, it was to be rated as land in its natural condition; and if the land was used for growing
 652
 MR. PEASE  said, that the noble Lord (Lord Henry Scott) and the hon. Baronet (Sir George Jenkinson) must have had some communication with the Government on the clause. Neither he nor any hon. Gentleman near him had hoard the Government express an opinion on the subject.
 MR. PEASE  complained of the diversity of assessment with respect to mines, and suggested that in any future legislation on the subject of rating, a more fair and palateable mode of assessment should be adopted.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, though it was highly objectionable to bring in Bills which dealt only with the fringe of the subject, still, in their present position, the suggestion that the Amendment should not be accepted was the only course open to the Committee, if they desired to pass the Bill. For his own part, he would much rather that the Bill were postponed, and that the question, which had been debated for many weeks last Session, should not be dealt with now, than that a matter of such great magnitude and importance as the fair rating of property should be treated as it had been treated by the late and as it was being treated by the present Government, who were accepting and fathering the child they opposed on every occasion last Session.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the real question was, whether the Government should advise Her Majesty to give her Assent to this proposal with reference to Crown property? and with regard to that, he thought it would be an unsatisfactory course for the House to proceed with the discussion of the subject, with the prospect that upon the third reading the Government might step in and stop the progress of the Bill, if the Amendment should be adopted, by refusing to advise Her Majesty to sanction the provisions in question. The policy which the Government had announced was, that they should, by Act of Parliament, deal with exemptions of certain classes of private property, but not to introduce into the measure any provision for doing away with the exemption of Crown property. They did not say that was a subject which ought not to be dealt with. On the contrary, they were of opinion that there was a fair and reasonable claim for bringing such property under contribution. It was already clone to a certain extent, and they thought it ought to be done to a greater extent. But they felt that was a difficult question involving a large number of important considerations, and they were not prepared to deal with it in an Act of Parliament of the present year. The Government had before them the experience of the Bill of last year, which undoubtedly passed this House, but which, on reflection, they were not prepared to accept, and they thought it advisable that the matter should stand over for further consideration; at the same time, not wishing to delay granting to the country and the localities chiefly interested that relief to which they had for some time been looking. They did propose to deal with
 645 646
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that was the spirit in which Her Majesty's Government intended to deal with the question, and in which they announced that they intended to deal with it. If those who brought forward the Motion had said that the Government ought to take the Protectorate under their immediate control, turn it into a Crown Colony, and establish an African Empire, he could have understood their demand that slavery should be at once put down in the same way as it was effected in Trinidad, Jamaica, and the West Indies generally. But that was not the course which they
 632 "Your Lordships will see that Her Majesty's Government propose to retain, as far as territorial jurisdiction goes, the Protectorate pretty much as it stands. Committees of the House of Commons at different times have held different language as to the extent of territorial power which we exercise—and the Colonial Office, perhaps, has not been more consistent, but, on the whole, it seems to mc that though some increase is inevitable in order to carry out a more effective administration, the present limits of our territorial power should not be enlarged more than is absolutely necessary."—[3  Hansard "Nor is it possible in the consideration of this branch of the question to forget that domestic slavery exists. Slavery in any form is so utterly
 633 Ibid.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the Government complained at all of the course taken by hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite it was not on the ground of their acting in a spirit of hostility towards the Government. In the first place the Government had no reason to believe that that was the case, and in the second, they fully recognized that in a matter of this importance the question of hostility to the Government ought to be as nothing in the eyes of those who came forward to support a cause in which—as the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat clown said, and said truly—the honour and character of England were so deeply interested. But what the Government did complain of, and what they thought they had reason to complain of, was that, considering the importance of the case and how much there was at stake, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City and the hon. and learned Member for Poole made proposals which indicated that they had taken but a cursory and imperfect view of the real state of affairs. As for the hon. and learned Member for Poole, he had but recently entered the House, and therefore he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should not so much complain of him; but he was supported and followed by a right hon. Gentleman—and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would forgive him for saying so—who ought to have known better the real state of the case. When the discussion was raised, the first question one asked oneself was "What is pre-
 630
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  remarked that that was exactly the point on which the hon. and learned Gentleman entirely misunderstood the situation. No portion whatever of British territory formed or would form part of the Protectorate. The hon. and learned Gentleman had mixed up two things which ought to be kept distinct. There was, in the first place, the British territory—Cape Coast Castle, Lagos, and other Settlements on the Coast. In these freedom had prevailed since the passing of the Emancipation Act, and there it must by the law of England continue to prevail. There was no danger of that freedom being at all lessened. But what were we going to do in regard to the Protectorate? This was a difficult and delicate ques-
 631 "One of the most important duties of the Judicial Assessor's Court since its foundation, and which has been constantly recognized in Committees of the House of Commons on West African affairs, has been the regulation, as far as has been possible, of the system of what is called domestic slavery, which exists among all the tribes which compose the British Protectorate. This duty involves the recognition and regulation of the rights of the masters as well as the protection of the servants."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  pointed out that in the case of a parish which had to contribute, say, £100 a-year in rates, and one-half of which was agricultural, whilst the other
 649
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving that the House go into Committee in order that the Bill be reprinted, said, it was not intended to proceed further with it during the present Session.
 SIR THOMAS BAZLEY  said, there was a strong feeling in Lancashire in favour of taxing all property indifferently for local expenses, and he believed the time had now arrived when Crown property should no longer be exempt. He should therefore support the Amendment.
 MR. BOORD  said, he did not object to the contributions in themselves, provided that everybody contributed his fair share, which would not be the case under the present Bill. Without requiring the Government to give any impossible pledge, he trusted that they would give some assurance that they would reconsider the question before another Session.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken looked no farther than Norfolk and Suffolk, and entirely forgot the rest of this large country. Taking the value of shooting throughout the whole of England, from one end to the other, they would find, with few exceptions of over-preservation of game, that shooting was of no great value to anyone. That was not the right way to assess shooting. Was the land to be rated in more than one way? If they were to put in shooting, they might put in other rights beside. Why did they not rate it upon what it was really worth, rate it upon that and nothing more? If the shooting was let, they knew what the value was, and it might be rated. If an owner depreciated the land by having an excessive amount of game upon it, then it ought to be rated in proportion to what it would have produced. But to lay down an arbitrary law that people might rate shooting at what it was worth, would be impracticable; because, as had been said, shooting let in the neighbourhood of London at fabulous prices. Such shooting might be worth £200 a-year on land that without it would be worth only £100. Owners were now supposed to be rated on all the land they held in their own hands, woods and everything else; and now it was proposed to rate them for the shooting over the farms which they let by receiving the right of shooting. There were hundreds and thousands of acres
 657
 SIR WLLFRID LAWSON : I never charged the hon. Gentleman with being the author of the phrase. I only charged him with using an adjective to explain the system.
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether he can state when the Kirwee prize accounts, which have been for so many years in preparation, will be produced; and, whether he has had under his consideration the great weight of legal authority by which the further prize claims of the late Sir G. C. Whitlock's force are supported?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : The Motion for the Return did not point out
 700
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he wished, before he referred to the hon. and learned Member for Limerick's (Mr. Butt's) Resolution, to say a few words on the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for the county of Londonderry (Mr. E. Smyth), and on the Amendment which he had placed on the Paper, although it was not his intention to move it on the present occasion. The House might congratulate itself on the honest and manly speech in which that hon. Member expressed the views of a very large portion of the in
 771 772 "That, solemnly re-asserting the inalienable rig-lit of the Irish people to self-government, we declare the time, in our opinion, has come when a combined and energetic effort should be made to obtain the restoration of that right." "I ask of any advocate of that which is termed simple repeal, is he willing-to recur to the state of things which existed on the day before the Union was passed? Is he willing to covenant that Ireland should abide by it? Let us suppose that an Act were passed declaring-the Union null and void. We would return to the state of things that existed after 1782. In the first place, you must have all Bills passed by the Irish Parliament approved of by the English Privy Council, and sanctioned under the Great Seal of England, by Ministers responsible only to the English Parliament. More, far more, than this; you would have no Irish Administration really responsible to your Irish Parliament; you would have your internal, your local affairs, managed by Ministers dependent for their continuance in office upon the votes of an English Parliament at Westminster coming-in and going out with an English Party, and, lastly and above all, you might find yourselves plunged into all the dangers and horrors of war by advice given by an English Ministry.
 773 '"The present state of Ireland is such as is not to be paralleled in history or fable. Inferior to no other country in Europe in the gifts of nature—blessed with a temperate sky and a fruitful soil, intersected by many great rivers-indented round her whole coast with the noblest harbours, abounding with all the necessary materials for unlimited commerce—teeming with inexhaustible mines of the most useful metals—filled by 4,000,000 of an ingenious and gallant people, with bold hands and ardent spirits—posted right in the track between Europe and America, within 50 miles of England, and 300 of France; yet, with all these great advantages, unheard of and unknown, without pride, or power, or name, without Ambassadors, Army, or Navy, not of half the consequence in the Empire, of which she has the honour to make a part, with the single county of York, or the loyal and well-regulated town of Birmingham.' " "This is a true description of the state of things which existed, in 1791. This, Sir, would plainly and indisputably be the effect of an Act which would simply repeal the Act of Union, and so send us back to the state of things which existed the day before it was passed, binding Ireland in all Imperial relations by the Acts of an English Ministry and an English Parliament." 774 775 776 "Federalism, he said, as it is interpreted by some of the soundest men of that party, demands local Parliaments for the three divisions of the Empire, and the Imperial one in common. Now, if this principle be insisted upon, federalism is an impracticability, for it implies a reorganization of the British Constitution. Apart from any other ejection to it, it raises a new and tremendous difficulty which does not exist against repeal." "I perfectly agree with Mr. Duffy. Any plan of a Federal union which would involve the breaking up of all the arrangements of the Constitution is impracticable. We must not come forward with a proposal to pull all existing things to pieces, in order to reconstruct fantastic baby-houses, or to frame political toys. It is vain to expect that the English people will consent to pull the fabric of Government to pieces for the sake of giving us Home Rule. The plan we propose to-day is open to no such objection. It can be carried out with scarcely an alteration—with no essential alteration in the present machinery of the Imperial Government." 777 778 779 780 781
 MR. SULLIVAN : Sir—It is very necessary to be remembered that in this debate the Irish Members are not pleading before a tribunal the judgment of which can be hold to be independent, or the decision of which can fairly be accepted upon the merits of their case. To accuse a man to himself, to ask of him a verdict upon his own actions, is hardly to consult an impartial authority. And just so do we stand here to-night in this debate—60 men before 500; but 60 men, almost two-thirds of the Representatives of the Irish nation, to plead this case, not before an impartial tribunal, but before the Representatives of the nation that has done us the wrong. ["No, no!"] I do not say not impartial as imputing anything against your fair dispositions to hear our case, and judge it as fairly as men may be expected to judge their own wrong-doing. I confide largely in your good-natured desire to understand our demand; but I do say, human nature being just what it is—that is to say, not being angelic nature, but human nature, you cannot call your-selves, nor can I, with sincerity, call you—being, as you are, one of the parties in the suit, being the defendants in the case, an impartial tribunal to try this great international issue between your land and ours. On the very threshold, I desire this matter clearly understood and well remembered. I want it understood that I address myself not to my judges, but that I accuse my wrongers; glad, indeed, to let their reply and my accusation be weighed by public opinion—the public opinion of the world; but quite refusing to let the decision of the accused, judge the merits of the case I plead. The front benches—at least the subordinates of the front benches on either side—have, apparently, competed in eagerness to combat the Irish
 782 783 784 785 786 787 788 plebiscite plebiscite plebiscite 789 The Times 790 791
 THE O'DONOGHUE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 COLONEL WHITE  said, he was thankful that the Speaker had selected him to address the House upon this great question,
 758 The Times 759 "I think we ought not only to admit, but to welcome every improvement in the organization of local and subordinate authority, which, under the unquestioned control of Parliament, would tend to lighten its labours and to expedite the public Business." 760 The Times 761
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, the Treaty referred to was authentic; but, as it had been ratified, it would not be possible to introduce any modifications now. If the hon. and gallant Member would move for a Copy of the Treaty being had on the Table, he should be glad to produce it.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, the latest authentic information
 699
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that the West India Mails had been for some time landed at Plymouth instead of Falmouth, among other reasons because the steam packets as a rule performed the voyage just as quickly to Plymouth as to Falmouth; and the distance to be traversed by railway cost much less from Plymouth than from Falmouth, especially between London and the manufacturing districts. It was, therefore, proposed to continue the agreement by which the homeward bound West India Mails were landed at Plymouth; and, after being sanctioned by the Treasury, it would shortly be proposed to the House of Commons. Moreover, the railway from Falmouth to Plymouth was only a single line, and it, therefore, did not afford the proper facilities which were required.
 CAPTAIN BEDFORD PIM  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Colonial Office has received any information as to two sentences recently passed by one of the district magistrates in Mauritius, in one of which he sentenced Mr. Piddington, an engineer of great eminence in the Colony, to pay a fine of £5 and suffer fourteen days' imprisonment for a slight assault on a Coolie under circumstances of considerable provocation; and, in the other, he inflicted on a Coolie who had attempted to murder a hospital surgeon a fine of £1, and ordered the surgeon to pay the costs; and, whether it is true that in Mr. Piddington's case the Governor has refused to receive a humble and respectful Petition, which prayed his intervention upon the ground, not of any informality in the Petition or its wording, but of some personal complaint made by the magistrate against Mr. Piddington's Attorney?
 MR. DISRAELI : I believe there is some anxiety on the part of hon. Gentlemen opposite that this debate should be adjourned. But the House will recollect the period of the Session at which we have arrived, and the great difficulty in which we are placed, although there is an anxious desire on the part of the Government to meet the wishes of the House on the subject. I trust, therefore, hon. Gentlemen will consider the matter. Her Majesty's Government are prepared to conclude the debate to-night; but I should be very sorry to address the House if afterwards we were to enter into a contest upon the subject of adjournment. If the House will proceed with the debate I will endeavour to bring it to a termination.
 MR. DISRAELI  moved, "That the Orders of the Day be postponed till after the Notice of Motion relating to Parliamentary Relations (Great Britain and Ireland.")
 MR. DISRAELI : I understand there is a wish—not confined to one side of the House—for adjournment, and if a concession of that kind is to be made, the handsomest manner of making it is the best. I will, therefore, agree that this debate should be continued on Thursday; but I do so with the generous
 792
 MR. RITCHIE  said, he must compliment the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) on the very moderato tone he had adopted in introducing this question, and he hoped, as the Government had seen fit to give a night for this discussion, the rumblings of distant thunder in the air would cease, and the result would be to clear the atmosphere of the House. When the question had been properly discussed, and the division taken, he trusted that Irish Members would be satisfied, and would not again introduce the subject during the present Parliament. The burden of proof lay on the Irish Members to show not merely that the evils they described existed, but that they were entailed on Ireland by her connection with England. Ireland, for many years, had unfortunately been a scene of lawlessness and disorder. Certainly, fighting and disorder had been more the rule than the exception. He would read a passage on that subject from Froude—
 753 "To the Englishman the perpetual disturbance appeared a dishonour and a disgrace; to the Celt it was the normal and natural employment of human beings, in the pursuit of which lay the only glory and the only manly pleasure." "The appearance of the Irish showed them to he the fruit not of a good tree; they exercised no virtue and refrained from no vice; every man thought he had a right to do what he listed; on the Sabbath they rested from all honest exercise, and on the week-day they were never idle, but worse occupied; when murder was committed they never ceased killing all they could; thus they lived and thus they died; and there was no one to teach them better." 754 "If we are to pursue the beaten course of faction and folly, I have no scruple to say it were better for Great Britain that Ireland should sink into the sea than continue attached to the British Crown on the terms of our present connection. Our difficulties arise from an Irish war, a war of faction, a Whig war, a United Irishman's war. It has been demanded, how are we to be relieved by a Union? I answer—We are to be relieved from British and Irish faction, which is the source of all our calamities. When I look at the squalid misery of the mass of the Irish people, I am sickened with the rant of Irish dignity and independence. I hope I feel as becomes a true Irishman for the dignity and independence of my country. I would therefore elevate her to her proper station in the rank of civilized nations. I would advance her from the degraded post of a mercenary province to the proud station of an integral and governing member of the greatest empire in the world." "Should some score Catholics, by the vote of that night, find their way into the Imperial Parliament, and afterwards feel their inferiority in an assembly of 658 Members, they would rapidly augment their strength by new political recruits, and endeavour, by a repeal of the Union, to re-establish the Irish Parliament. He felt the full force of the consequences to be apprehended from such a measure, and he trembled for the separation of his native country from that connection with England, deprived of which, he was convinced she could be neither prosperous nor happy." 755 756 Argument for Ireland 757
 MR. DAVID JENKINS  asked the Postmaster General, If, with the view of accelerating the delivery of the Mails, he will consider the advisability of substituting our most western port, Falmouth, for Plymouth, as the port of call for the West India Mail Steamers?
 MR. M'LAREN  asked the Lord Advocate, Whether, in the paper now being-printed for the information of the House, in connection with the Church Patronage Bill, to show the number of communicants in each parish in Scotland, he can arrange the details in two columns, the one to give the numbers who will be authorized to vote in the election of ministers according to the interpretation clause as "being of full age," and the other column to give the numbers who will be excluded from the power of voting by not "being of full age?"
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any steps have been taken to introduce the "Eucalyptus Globulus" into the Gold Coast, the West Indies, and other unwholesome colonies, with a view to reduce or destroy the malaria?
 MR. WHALLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, with reference to the operation of Orders issued by Lord Kimberley reducing the Protestant diocese of Gibraltar to the position of a Missionary Church, and to the representations made by the Reverend Mr. Wayne, of Malta, and others, complaining of the degradation and injury sustained by the Protestants of Malta thereby, Whether any, and what steps are to be taken to afford due protection to public and private interests against this supremacy claimed and now exercised by the Church of Rome in that Colony?
 MR. BUTT  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given Notice—
 "That this House resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole House, to Consider the present Parliamentary relations Between Great Britain and Ireland." 701 "That it is expedient and just to restore to the Irish Nation the right and power of managing all exclusively Irish affairs in an Irish Parliament; and that provision should be made at the same time for maintaining the integrity of the Empire and the connection between the Countries by reserving to this Imperial Parliament full and exclusive control over all Imperial affairs." 702 703 704 de facto de jure 705 706 707 "For my part," said the noble Lord, "I shall resist to the last gasp, and when I see my efforts are of no avail, then, like the father of Hannibal, I shall lead my children to the altar, and make them swear eternal hatred to England." 708 "For my own part, I can only beg to say that which I have often presumed to say in this House. We are an united people, with a Common Government, and a complete political incorporation. But we are also an united kingdom made up of three nations, of three countries
 709 Hansard 710 711 712 713 "Government for Ireland there is none, said the speaker to whom he referred. Irish questions are regarded in the British Parliament as means for rewarding auxiliaries or embarrassing opponents; but a Government for Ireland influenced by regard for the wellbeing or wishes of its population there is none." 714 715 716 717 "Non ego nee Teucris Italos parere jubebo, Nee nova regna peto: paribus se legibus ambæ Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant."—[ Parl. History
 MR. J. LOWTHER : I am not aware, Sir, of any "orders" issued by Lord Kimberley upon the subject referred to in the hon. Gentleman's Question; but the Letters Patent of the 15th of November, 1873, were repealed under the advice of the then Law Officers of the Crown, and the new Bishop was consecrated by virtue of a mandate, dated the 5th of December, 1873. As to the case of Mr. Wayne, no official representations have reached the Colonial Office; but a private communication has been received which, together with others, is now under consideration.
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, the Colonial Office has been informed by Dr. Hooker that it is doubtful whether this tree, which is a native of the cooler parts of Australia, will thrive in West Africa or in any thoroughly tropical climate; and that its sanitary properties have been much exaggerated. It has been for years cultivated, I am sorry to say, without success, in Mauritius. Seeds have, however, been sent to Grenada and the Leeward Islands, as well as to Sierra Leone, and information upon the subject has been given to the Administrator of the Gold Coast.
 MR. J. LOWTHER : No official information, Sir, has been received at the Colonial Office, although my attention has been called to some newspaper paragraphs containing the information alluded to in the hon. Gentleman's Question. Until some official communication is received, I cannot afford any information upon the subject.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, that a clear, distinct, and emphatic decision on the question now submitted to their consideration
 718 719 720 721 722 723 724 725 726 Laughter Murmurs 727 728 729 730 "You may "be sure," said Lord Bolingbroke, "that all those naturally turbulent and restless all who have languished in expectation, all who have any cause for personal resentment, will take the occasion to add to the cry, and to pursue their own views by intermingling them in this cause." 731 Virgil grandia que effossis mirabitur ossa sepulcris grandia ossa
 CHEVALIER O'CLERY said : The speeches delivered in opposition to the Motion for self-government for Ireland appear to be based on the assumption that our country has advanced in material prosperity because of the Legislative Union with England in 1800. To the Irish people this assumption must appear as astounding as it is false. It is unnecessary in disproving it to recapitulate the history of the acts and intrigues which led up to that unfortunate period when the autonomy of Ireland was sacrificed to Imperialism. Of the historical iniquity which culminated in the passing of the Union, I will only say that the results to us are as calamitous as the means employed by you to accomplish it were unworthy and unjust. The true measure of the prosperity of a country must be taken by the standard of an ever-increasing population, ever capable of self-sustainment on the soil. England has thus increased in true wealth by her population, disproportionate though it be to the area of her soil, but sustained by the extremest development under the fostering care of a native Government. Now, what of Ireland? What of a people not less gifted than Englishmen in everything that makes Englishmen great? We have the answer in a population as low as that at the dawn of this century; in manufactures destroyed; in agriculture just allowed to exist by the unwilling concession of a land law of a few years' standing which may, or may not, at the close of this century, root an equal population on the soil. Let us look at the details of the picture, and endeavour to account for this stationary population—this decline in real prosperity—while every country in Europe is advancing in strength and power. The reason beyond question is to be found in the Act of Union which destroyed self-government in Ireland, and made the liberties and the welfare of her people absolutely dependent on the caprices and prejudices of another country. During the 74 years of the connection, the Irish people have never ceased to attribute, the decay of their national resources to the absence of self-government. In 1810 many of the grand juries in Ireland, but especially those of Dublin city and county, urged on Grattan the necessity
 764 s 765 766 767 768 769
 MR. RICHARD POWER  said, it was with some amount of hesitation that he rose to address a few observations to the House upon the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt); but he would not be discharging the duty he owed to his constituents if he did not express what he believed to be their opinions upon this important subject. He asked the House not to be led away by prejudice or preconceived ideas, but to approach the question in that spirit of justice and fair play which ought to characterize all their deliberations. He could truly say, that they on their part were earnestly striving to end the quarrel of centuries in a peaceable and Constitutional manner within the walls of that House. In dealing with this question they must not forget the extraordinary position of their party. For the first time, since the Act of Union, a majority of Irish Members had been returned pledged to seek for the restoration of the Lords and Commons of Ire-laud under the Queen of England. When the late Mr. O'Connell satin the House, the most he could command was 37 followers. There were now 59 Members from Ireland, and many friends from England and Scotland, pledged to a Constitutional programme, and he believed that the people of Ireland had confidence in their Representatives, for they found them to be independent Members, and no longer the followers of a party who used them when they were necessary, and then, by some marvellous absence of mind, forgot their existence when they ceased to be a utility. But for the manner in which they had been taken by surprise at the unexpected Dissolution of Parliament, not 60, but 80 Members would have been there that evening to support the Motion. It was rather late now to question the wisdom of the course adopted by the late Prime Minister; but doubtless Her Majesty's late Government were following a notable precedent in Irish history when, in the time of St. Patrick, the serpents committed suicide to save themselves from slaughter. He should not question that
 747 748 749 "Prior to the Union, 98 Peers and a proportionate number of wealthy Commoners inhabited the City. The number of resident Peers at present docs not exceed 12. The effect of the Union has boon to withdraw from Dublin many of those who were likely to contribute most effectually to its opulence and importance. A house which, in 1797, paid £6 4 s s d s d 750 751 752 "I would have the whole Irish government regulated by Irish notions and Irish prejudices; and I firmly believe, according to another Irish expression, the more she is under the Irish government the more she will be bound to English interests."—[ Parl. History
 MR. BOURKE  said, that the duty in question would be performed by Mr. Knox, Consul at Bangkok.
 MR. W. H. SMITH : All objections, Sir, to the new Rules issued in 1873 have been carefully considered, and a draft set of amended and consolidated Rules have been prepared and approved by the Lord Chancellor. They are at present under the consideration of the Treasury, and there is every reason to hope they will be issued shortly, and will go far to meet the difficulty referred to by the hon. Member.
 MR. FORSYTH  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, If he will state to the House the exact number of cases of death from starvation, owing to the famine in Bengal, so far as authentic information has been received up to the present time?
 MR. R. SMYTH : The Amendment which I had placed upon the Paper is to the following effect:—
 "That it would be prejudicial to the material prosperity, and dangerous to the peace and independence of the Irish Nation, to make any change in the Parliamentary Government of those countries, involving a dissolution of the Legislative Union of Great Britain and Ireland." 732 733 734 735 736 737 à priori à posteriori 738 739 740 741 742 743 "I believe it to be quite practicable, by means of Amendments, conceived in the spirit of justice and fair play between man and man, to base those laws so firmly and intelligently on the time-honoured custom of Ulster as to extend to every agricultural holding in this wide province, free from such estate rules as limit in an arbitrary manner its value, the full benefit of Ulster Tenant-right, as heretofore understood and practised on the best-managed estates." "With regard to this all-important subject of Tenant-right, the Act of 1870 being, as I think, generally accepted as a settlement of this long-vexed question, it only remains to make it more perfect in details, especially as there seems to be some doubt as to whether it applies to leaseholders whose tenure has expired. Those rights of tenants which it upholds have proved of incalculable benefit to the North of Ireland, and I will support any reasonable Amendment of that Act which will secure Tenant-right to occupiers in the fall of leases." "I beg to refer to the votes which I gave during the passing of the Land Act, every one of which was given in support of its principle." "I consider the Land Act, when properly understood and carried out, the greatest boon ever granted to the tenants of Ireland." 744 745 746
 SIR CHARLES LEGARD  expressed his great satisfaction at finding that the long-threatened subject of Home Rule had at length been fairly brought before the House; but the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) must excuse him if he said that the change which he advocated was very like that which a few years ago had been proposed under the name of Repeal. Remembering the language which some hon. Members had recently addressed to their constituents, he was astonished to find they had been suddenly converted, and that they would now be perfectly satisfied with Home Rule, instead of what they had loudly demanded but a little while ago. What did Home Rule—this new panacea for Irish wrongs—really mean? They had been told it meant local self-government. Did it mean self-government in matters purely local, as Englishmen understood the words, or was it a disingenuous phrase, the true and honest interpretation of which was Repeal in disguise? It was customary for counsel, when bringing a charge of bribery and corruption in an election case, to investigate the previous character of the constituency; and similarly in this matter he had run through
 762 "My poor opinion is that the closest connection between great Britain and Ireland is essential to the well-being, I had almost said, to the very being, of the two kingdoms. I think, indeed, that Great Britain would be ruined by the separation of Ireland; by such a separation Ireland would be the most completely undone country
 763
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, it was impossible that the debate on such a subject could be concluded that evening, for hon. Members knew perfectly well that the newspapers reported nothing of the speeches after half-past 12 o'clock. There were a great many hon. Gentlemen on that side anxious to speak, and he hoped, therefore, the Government would give another night.
 MR. GOLDNEY (for Mr. GREGORY)  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, "Whether his attention has been called to the loss sustained by infants entitled to the benefit of small sums in the Court of Chancery by the
 697
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the Treaty lately concluded between the Government of India and the King of Siam, has been communicated to the Foreign Office; and, if so, then whether any, and what Consular Officers are to be appointed to carry out the Treaty? He would also ask the Under Secretary of State for India if the Treaty concluded between the Government of India and the King of Siam, published in the "London and China Telegraph," of 23rd June, is authentic; and, if so, whether any
 698
 VISCOUNT CRICHTON  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member for Limerick was bound to show, first, that the material prosperity of Ireland had of late years been retrograding so much as to call for the change he proposed, and, secondly, that there was an overwhelming preponderance of feeling in Ireland—not merely a numerical preponderance, but a preponderance of all parties in all parts of the Island—in favour of the change. The population of Ireland remained somewhat stationary in consequence of the potato disease, and it was too bad that a visitation of Providence should, be charged to the fault of the Imperial Parliament of England. A reference to authentic statistics showed that the prosperity of the country was increasing. The value of live stock in Ireland was £21,200,000 in 1841 and £37,515,000 in 1871. The number of cattle was 2,900,000 in 1850 and 4,100,000 in 1873; while the number of sheep was 1,800,000 in 1850 as against 4,400,000 in 1873. The only species of live stock which had not numerically increased in Ireland during that period was the donkey. Again, the increased manufactures might be taken as a fair test of the prosperity of the country. In 1862 there were 100 factories with 592,000 spindles and employing 33,000 people; whereas in 1870 there were 150 flax factories, with 916,000 spindles, and employing 55,000 people. But the greatest test was supplied by the deposits in the joint stock banks, which having been £5,500,000 in 1840, had reached the amount of £28,700,000 in 1872. These few figures spoke of the material prosperity of Ireland more eloquently than the rhetoric of hon. Members below the gangway. As to the alleged preponderance of Irish opinion in favour of the change, he would remark that there was only a majority of 15 Irish Members in favour of Home rule, and that so narrow a majority would not justify the House in assenting to the proposed change. The hon. and learned Member had alluded to the requisition for a Home Rule Conference, with its 25,000
 770
 MR. M. T. BASS  said, he happened to have his residence and cottages in three different parishes, two of which had school boards already and schools; but one was seven miles distant from his cottages, the other nearly four. The third parish had not a school board, but was to have one. Now, he had provided schools at an expense of £2,000 for buildings and £85 a-year for masters and mistresses. But when one of his schools was seven miles and the other four miles away from his cottages, he wanted to know how compulsion could be carried out?
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, with regard to the remark of the last speaker as to imitating foreign countries, that there was no analogy between the case of the army and that of education, and pointed out that if the analogy was carried further than the hon. Baronet had done, they would find in respect of the Army, that we had refused to adopt one important principle from foreign nations, the very principle which was now the subject of contention—he referred to compulsion.
 823 in toto The Times "The proposal to stamp out the small-pox by compulsory isolation was unsuccessful, because, however practicable in the abstract, the necessary
 824 825 826
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  said, the time had arrived when compulsion ought to be applied to the attendance in all public elementary schools. The penalties of the law might properly enforce upon the parents that duty which nature had already imposed upon them, and which their own conscience and natural affection ought to lead them to fulfil. Regular attendance would never be secured without some stringent law being supplied to punish those parents who allowed their children to remain uneducated, and he believed the general feeling of the country had come round to the necessity of compulsory education. Compulsion, however, could only be carried out in harmony with public opinion in the localities, and in some form that would not increase the prejudice that existed against school boards in many rural districts. But the machinery of the Bill was not the best for parishes in which sufficient accommodation was provided by voluntary schools. The constitution and election of school boards were fitted to secure responsibility and economy in the expenditure of rates; but if boards were established in parishes where no expenditure of the rates was required, merely for the purpose of framing some
 827
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : I cannot, Sir, exactly state the day upon which these Papers will be laid upon the Table of the House, but I can undertake that as soon as the Correspondence is complete it shall be produced. The subject to which these Papers relate is of great importance, and the Papers themselves are of such a character as to render it impossible to produce them at a moment's notice. Considerable Correspondence has, and is, passing between the Governments of India and Bombay and the India Office. When that Correspondence is concluded, the Papers will be complete, and will be laid upon the Table of the House.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon) had said that it was generally acknowledged that any education short of Standards IV. and V. was unsatisfactory, and that the children who could only pass Standard III. were likely very soon to forget all that they had learnt. The value of that assertion depended very much upon what the Standards of III., IV., and V. were, and that was the question which had not been brought before the House, or, indeed, before the country, and he thought he might venture to say that there was not sufficient information upon the point to justify an intelligent public opinion being formed upon the
 828 829 s s s s
 MR. DIXON , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said: Sir, the Bill I am about to invite the House to read a second time to-day is as simple in its character as I believe, and as I hope, it would, if carried, be important in its results. The Bill proposes that whereas hitherto the election and formation of school boards throughout the country has been permissive, it shall now become compulsory; and whereas the school attendance of children has been permissive, and not enforced, except at the will of the inhabitants, it shall become compulsory on the part of school boards to enforce it. I am aware that there may be in the minds of hon. Gentlemen opposite some little prejudice arising against the Bill, in consequence of the quarter from which it proceeds, and therefore I will trouble the House with a few remarks on what the Bill does not propose to do, in order that, if possible, those prejudices may be mitigated, if not entirely removed. The Bill does not propose to repeal Clause 25; it does not propose to touch, in any manner, any of the religious difficulties which have surrounded the education question; it does not propose to give power to school boards to deal with voluntary schools; and, in the last place, it does not propose to give to school boards any more power than they possess at present of facilitating the transfer of voluntary schools, or of erecting new board schools. The Act of 1870 provided that wherever there was not a sufficiency of school accommodation, after due notice had been given, a school board should be formed for the purpose of providing for that deficiency; and therefore it follows that wherever a school board does not exist, there must be a sufficiency of school accommodation. Therefore the operation of my Bill will be mainly with reference to those districts where there is already a sufficiency of school accommodation; and, if so, the object of the Bill is clearly not to create any new board schools. The Bill is, in fact, what it declares it-
 794 795 "The lesson we draw from the figures we have quoted, is that earnest efforts will have to be made by every available means, to secure and enforce the attendance of children at school, as the sole condition on which we can expect that the labours of the past few years will meet with an adequate return." 796 "There is only one means by which this principle can be carried out, and that is by compulsory attendance. It is very remarkable how completely thoughtful people of all political opinions have come round to recognizing the necessity of compulsion." "I think no one will question but that compulsory difficulties have turned out vastly less, and compulsory successes vastly greater, than those anticipated by panic-stricken opponents on the one side, or by sanguine supporters on the other." "That as absence from school and irregular attendance are the greatest obstacles to education, the attention of the Education Department be specially called to the difficulty at present existing in the enforcement of attendance at school in districts in which there are no school boards, and the great importance of affording a remedy for this defect." 797 798 s 799 800 801 d d 802 803 804 "The cost of these universal school boards will he no difficulty. The expense of a board may be a halfpenny rate, the maintenance of the schools two pence halfpenny more—in all, a three penny rate. The clergy have now an opportunity such as they never had before, and such as they never will have again. To oppose the formation of school boards is suicidal; we shall destroy our cause as well as ourselves. If we gladly welcome that aid, without which our
 805 806 807 808
 MR. DIXON , in reply, said, that he regretted extremely the speech of the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council, who would postpone compulsion, until he found some machinery for working it which he could approve of.
 849
 MR. FAWCETT  believed that the speech which the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Birley) had delivered in opposition to the Bill would in future years be regarded as constituting an epoch in the history of elementary education in the country. The speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon) was so temperate, that the hon.
 830 from the Ministerial side 831 832 833
 MR. BIRLEY , in moving, as an Amendment, that the Bill be now read a second time that day three months, said, the measure which had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon) though very brief, was very stringent in the character of the interference it proposed with the present system of education. It seemed to him to propose the enactment of a complete system of compulsion, requiring reluctant ratepayers to elect school boards in every civil and parochial district throughout the country, while those school boards were to enforce compulsory attendance on the part of the children in
 809 "The object of the League was this, the establishment of school boards throughout the country with compulsory attendance of the children, and the boards to undertake the management, superintendence, and payment for the secular education both in their own and in the denominational schools. The result would be that the various denominations would be saved the entire cost of the secular instruction, and would be able to devote their time and money exclusively to the religious instruction of the children." 810 811 812 "I do not wonder that even the most intelligent parents take away their children from the elementary school after 10 or 11 years of age; perhaps it is their very intelligence that makes them do so. Where there is little, or perhaps nothing, taught save reading, writing, and arithmetic, the school is in truth merely an infant school grown to undue and monstrous proportions. The minds of the scholars in the highest Standard make no worthy progress. They may have advanced 'a rule,' they may spell harder words, but there is no true development." "So far as my district, at least, is concerned, the methods of teaching all three subjects—reading, writing, and arithmetic—are, on the average, decidedly inferior to those commonly used in it before the introduction of the Revised Code." 813 814
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he would assent to the second reading, on the understanding that the Bill should go no further. The question was one which demanded, and should receive, the attention of the Government in the Recess.
 MR. DUNBAR  asked the Under-Secretary of State for India, Whether he can say how soon he will be able to lay upon the Table of the House the Papers relating to the Bombay riots?
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  in seconding the Amendment said, that before addressing himself to the Bill before the House, he wished to explain the reason for the withdrawal of his Amendment. He had thought it would be better to take the sense of the House directly on a matter so important as that now raised, and to avoid the misconception that he was prepared under certain conditions to agree to universal school boards. It would be more consonant with the genius of our institutions to encourage voluntary effort. Some hold that Continental education was bettor than ours. No doubt there were grievous blots on our social, moral, and intellectual condition; but still, looking at the educational system of Continental nations, as compared with our own, he thought we had not reason to blush at the result. He objected to the establishment of school boards, except under great necessity, because they were institutions which were quite opposed to the spirit of existing ones. He was in favour of voluntary effort, which he contended had produced results equal to the system of education adopted by any country in the
 815 "Ought we to restrict the school boards in regard to religion more than we do the managers of voluntary schools? We have come to the conclusion that we ought not. We restrict them, of course, to the extent of a most stringent Conscience Clause."—[3  Hansard 816 The Times d d 817
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR : The speech of my noble Friend the Vice President of the Council compels us to divide. I had hoped that he would have said something to prevent that necessity. He excuses himself on the ground that even my right hon. Friend the Member for Bradford was unable to describe a machinery for enforcing compulsion. That was not his duty; but it is no Cabinet secret that my right hon. Friend had a measure ready prepared for the purpose, and had it been the fate of the Liberal Government to have been in office this year, it would doubtless have formed one of the leading measures of the Session. I intend to vote for the second reading of the Bill, but I should like to give a short explanation of my vote. I view it simply as a Bill for universal compulsory education through the agency of school boards. If the Government admit the necessity for universal compulsion, but propose some other machinery than school boards to carry it out, I would be prepared to discuss their plan on its merits. For I admit that England and Scotland are not in the same position as regards education. In 1872, when the Scotch Act passed, and
 844 845 846 847 848
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, there had been so many Education debates that he sometimes feared the House was becoming weary of the subject; but there certainly had been no signs of weariness that day, because the proposal submitted by his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham related to the most important branch, by far, of the education question. Notwithstanding the Education Act vast numbers of the children of the poor were not taught at all, because they never went to school, or else were so irregular in their attendance that the instruction they received did not deserve the name of education. While the general tone of the hon. Member for Birmingham's speech was moderate and conciliatory, the arguments he advanced in favour of compulsion were overpoweringly strong. Perhaps his hon. Friend had not made sufficient allowance for the schools which were not under Government inspection, and, perhaps, he had not displayed to the House quite enough of the hopeful side of the picture, by admitting that the average attendance had increased from 1,000,000 to 1,500,000 in the last three years. But there was no doubt whatever of the general correctness of hon. Member's figures, or of his inference that, unless we could compel the attendance of children at the schools, we should get no security for the object we had at heart—namely, that the children of our poorer fellow-subjects should not grow up in ignorance. The figures in the Report issued by his (Mr. Forster's) successors in the Education Department
 836 "The lesson we draw from the figures we have quoted is that earnest efforts will have to he made by every available means to secure and enforce the attendance of children at school, as the sole condition on which we can expect that the labours of the past few years will meet with an adequate return, in the improved instruction of the labouring classes of the community." 837 838 839
 MR. GRANTHAM  said, that though he was himself strongly in favour of compulsory education, he could not vote for a Bill, the main object of which was to provide for the compulsory formation of school boards throughout the country. No great practical difficulty had been found in carrying out the principle of compul-
 834 d d 835
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  congratulated the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon), on having half converted the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Birley) whose surprise at the remarks of the hon. Gentleman in introducing the measure, was only equalled by the surprise he (Sir John Lubbock) himself felt at the remarks of the hon. Member for Manchester, which were not directed so much against the Bill as in favour of extra subjects. But there was a marked difference between that speech and the one made by the hon. Seconder of the Amendment; and the speech of the hon. Member for West Kent (Mr. Talbot), on the other hand, was directed rather against the Act of 1870 than against the present Bill. At the recent banquet in the City the present Prime Minister truly said that—
 "by elevating the spiritual, intellectual, and physical condition of our fellow-countrymen their energies might he trebled, and in that policy we should find the best security for the maintenance of our power and fame." 818 "All the practical educationists with whom I have been brought into contact agree that compulsion in one form or another must be applied." "But the lesson we draw from the figures we have quoted is, not that the conditions of our annual grants should be cither too rapidly raised in point of stringency or lowered to the level of existing things, but that earnest efforts will have to be made by every available means to secure and enforce the attendance of children at school, as the sole condition on which we can expect that the labours of the past few years will meet with an adequate return in the improved instruction of the labouring classes of the community." 819 820 "There was one town in his diocese which he could not help thinking had hit off the golden mean in the matter. It had a school board, but no board school, and the result was that children were now sent to school in increased numbers." 821 822
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving that the Bill be read
 854
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, he joined most cordially in the remarks which had been made as to the improvement in the general tone of the discussion compared with what had been the case in former years. It reflected, he believed, the sober judgment of the nation on that great question; and he begged to express his own obligations to the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon)
 840 841 842 843
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that in accordance with a promise given, he instructed Mr. Wynne, Inspector of Mines for the district in which the colliery was situate, together with a neighbouring Inspector, to attend the
 873
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, such an officer, if he was permitted to retire from the Army when on foreign service, would not be charged with the passage of his successor unless he were on leave, and had signed the certificate prescribed by Sec. 13, par. 19, Queen's Regulations, 1873.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that there had been a great many complaints on the subject referred to in the Question of his noble Friend; in
 872
 MR. MACCARTHY : Sir, in approaching this question, I ask every hon. Gentleman who feels really inte-
 875 The Pall Mall Gazette 876 877 Bundesstät 878 "The Federal system requires a sufficient degree of community in origin, or feeling, or interest to allow the members to work together up to a certain point. It requires that there should not be that perfect degree of community or rather identity, which allows the members to be fused together for all purposes. When there is no community at all Federalism is inappropriate; the cities or States had better remain wholly independent. When community rises into identity Federalism is equally inappropriate; the cities or States had better both sink into the counties of a kingdom. But in the intermediate set of circumstances … Federalism is the true solvent. It gives as much union as the members need, and not more than they need." 879 880 881 882 "It would, more than any other measure, contribute to the separation of two countries the perpetual connection of which was one of the warmest wishes of his heart." 883 plus 884
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that the Commission appointed at the beginning of the Session had not, so far as he was aware, concluded its labours, and until its Report was in his hands it was impossible for him to take any action upon it.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he agreed with many of the observations that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, whose speech was very different in tone from that delivered by the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland. He had heard the remarks made by the Attorney General on Tuesday night with very great regret; for, whether concurring in the views of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) or not, it was impossible for anyone, and particularly for any Irishman, not to feel that this was a question of deep and vast importance, and one that had, more than any previous question, taken a great hold on the minds of the Irish people. The right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (the Attorney General for Ireland) had replied to the Motion with words of contempt and menace; but that was not the way in which such a question should be met, nor was it the way, he would frankly admit, in which
 919 920 921 922
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, the report of the hon. Gentleman's speech contained these words—
 "The only way in which you could make it appear you were justified in your oppression of Ireland was by showing that the Irish were less than human, and, as such, in no way entitled to the rights of citizenship. Your Press, your platform, your pulpit give expression to the unalterable hate, the indescribable contempt, you entertain towards the Celtic race." 929 930 931 "I will not reject any Federal, for a Federal must be a Repealer, inasmuch as the Union must be repealed before a Federal Parliament could be assembled." "Has the Union been what it ought to be, the amalgamation of the two countries? It ought to have been an identification of the two Islands. There should have been no rights or privileges with one that should not have been communicated to the other. The Franchise should have been the same—all corporate rights the same—every civic privilege identical. Cork should have no more difference from Kent than York from Lancashire. That ought to have been the Union. …. A solemn pledge was given that the grievances of Ireland should be redressed. For five years we declined the Re-
 932 Hansard "The hon. Member read the Petition, which claimed equalization of the franchise, equalization of corporate reform, equalization of religious equality, equalization of rights and privileges with England, and stated if that were granted the petitioners would not claim the repeal of the Union."—[ Ibid 933 934 s 935 The Times 936 937 938
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER  said, the House had heard very little from the opponents of the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick to show that Home Rule had not been called for by a majority of the Irish people; but a great charge had been preferred against him (Mr. Butt) that 30 years ago he gave expression to opinions which were diametrically opposed to the sentiment contained in the Motion which he had submitted to the House. Not only had extracts been read from speeches made 80 years ago, but extracts had been quoted from a speech which had never been delivered. Now, he would read to the House one or two passages from a speech which was delivered by an hon. Member, and that was the hon. Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue). In a speech which the hon. Member for Tralee delivered, not 30 years ago, but in 1860, these words occurred—
 "Although the question of Repeal has not recently occupied a very prominent position, nevertheless it has always been before the public mind. In fact, it can never pass from before the public mind, unless the inhabitants of Ireland become the most abject slaves, or unless the people be transformed into, or be removed to make way for, Englishmen."
 THE O'DONOGHUE : Sir, I rise to Order. I am entitled to ask the hon. Member where the passage he has read is quoted from, for I doubt his accuracy.
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER  replied that the quotations he made were from the public newspapers.
 THE O'DONOGHUE : What newspaper?
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER :  The Nation "The representatives of English power in this country may he able to imprison or to banish our patriots; they may suppress our meetings; but let me tell them there is something which they can never suppress till they banish the Irish race, and that is the spirit of patriotism and the longing for self-government, which is the inevitable result of that patriotism." "We have come together for the purpose of declaring in the name of Ireland that Irishmen will never rest tranquil or satisfied till they have secured for themselves the blessings of a native Parliament." 940 "It is melancholy to observe how a patriot falls. There are few to remind him of his duty, and the power of the seducer is great. It is easy to perceive that there is an interior struggle going on, for he has the look of a man who is trying to make himself think that he is doing right but cannot succeed, and who is ashamed of himself."
 THE O'DONOGHUE : I ask, Sir, for the date of this speech; I doubt the accuracy of the quotation.
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER : I am quoting, Sir, from a pamphlet issued by the orders of the hon. Member for Tralee, and published at  The Nation
 THE O'DONOGHUE : The date, Sir; I ask for the date.
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER : 1861. The rest of the passage was as follows:—
 "How the Whips first act upon him—whether they begin by sending him in the morning neatly-printed invitations to come down in the evening to support the Government, which look confidential, or whether they begin by staring at him, I cannot tell. The first dangerous symptom is an evident anxiety on the part of the patriot to be alone in corner with the Government Whips. If you happen to pass him he tries to assume an air of easy indifference " "and utters a monosyllable in a loud voice. An evening or two afterwards, when the Ministry can scarcely scrape together a majority, the patriot votes with them, and remarks to his friend the Whip that it was a close thing. From bad he goes to worse, taking corn-age to himself from the idea that nobody knows him in the great wilderness of London. He gets up early and slips down a back way to the Treasury, and all is over." 941 942
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, although it was well known this Motion would not lead to what might be termed a Parliamentary result, the subject of discussion was very serious. It was, perhaps, the only question of which it might be affirmed with entire truth that it never would be a Party question. There was much in the manner of many hon. Members who supported this Motion which might lead the House to imagine—to use a familiar phrase—that it was only a joke. Nevertheless, it seemed to him to be the duty of the House generally, and of every individual Member who fully realized the responsibility of his position, and did not agree with certain hon. Gentlemen, to treat their proceedings on this occasion with the sternest reprobation. Every look, every word, ought to be carefully watched; for the slightest symptom of acquiescence with the Motion would be used as a pretext for perpetuating in Ireland what he must be permitted to call a gross and mischievous delusion. It was said that the Home
 926 927 928 The Freeman's Journal
 THE O'DONOGHUE : I did not say that no one heard it, but that I did not know of anyone who had.
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL , in reply, said, that steps were now under consideration for permanently securing that portion of the Government Stores which was most exposed. He was credibly informed by these best acquainted with the subject that the measures adopted before the high tide of the 20th March last, although temporary, would have been entirely successful in securing the object for which they were intended.
 MR. PELL  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Treasury arrangements are such as will relieve ratepayers in counties of half police pay and clothing for the whole or any portion of the half year ending September 29th, 1874, and borough ratepayers for the whole or any part of the half year ending August 31st, 1874; and, also when the Vote for the Supplementary Estimate for the Grant towards maintenance of Lunatics and the increased subvention on account of Police will be taken?
 MR. DISRAELI  moved—
 "That, whenever the House shall meet at Two of the clock, the sitting of the House shall be held subject to the Resolutions of the House of the 30th day of April 1869."
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, it was already late in the Session, that no doubt the subject would maintain its interest to the last, and that he should be happy
 874
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, we are asked to go into Committee in order that we may assert the right of Ireland to manage exclusively Irish affairs in an Irish Parliament and by the Irish people. I demur to going into Committee, because I do not admit the principle involved. "Why should we do so in order that we may assert that the Irish people have the right of dealing and of managing exclusively Irish affairs in an Irish Parliament? Is it a right enjoyed by the English? The English people have not the right of managing in their own Parliament—the existing Parliament—exclusively English affairs. The Scotch have not that right. I remember when I first entered Parliament, that for a long period there was a majority of English Members arrayed against the existing Government, and that existing Government flourished by dealing largely with Irish legislation, but no English Member—although they might disagree with the policy of the existing Government—no English Member for a moment questioned their constitutional right, if they obtained a majority in Parliament, of passing these measures. Then, again, cases are not rare where hon. Members from Scotland have brought forward measures supported by a considerable majority of Scotch Members, and they have not been passed. I never heard a Scotch Member rise and say that because such measures were not carried, they had a right of managing exclusively Scotch affairs in a Scotch Parliament for that purpose. They might have regretted the loss of the measure; but they acknowledged the constitutional right of Parliament in refusing to accede to it. Therefore the principal purpose of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick in asking us to go into Committee that we should assert the right of the Irish people to manage exclusively Irish affairs, is to assert a right which has never existed, and which ought not to exist, and one not enjoyed either by the English or Scotch people. But assuming—which is a very large assumption
 952 953 954 955 956 957 958 959 960 961 962 963
 MR. VERNER : The position, Sir, is so changed in Ireland, the circumstances are so different from these which existed in the last century, that the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) could hardly, even if it were advisable to do so, be carried out. If you alter the Parliamentary government of Ireland, and give "the right and power of managing exclusively Irish affairs in an Irish Parliament," as the hon. and learned Gentleman would have them, you will deal a more deadly blow at the well-being of that country than almost any which a sometime evil policy has dealt in the past. Looking back over the last 70 years, we see that Ireland has generally progressed—in spite of various drawbacks; in spite of a famine which spread like a pall over the land; in spite of what, to my mind at least, was frequently a pernicious policy, carried out by Whig or by Tory; and—I must add, Sir—in spite of such speeches as that which we have just heard from the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry). But the province which has outrun all the others in energy, in industry, and consequently in material prosperity, has been Ulster,
 923 924 "To proceed on the present line is fatal; for of all the impracticable schemes which human ingenuity could invent, I regard the Conference programme as the most impracticable." "When I said at the Conference that if it was the will of the nation to accept that programme I would go with the nation, I had reason to assume that the voice of the Conference was the voice of the country. I soon learned the contrary. I know now, for positive certainty, that it was not the voice of the country." 925 The Spectator
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  denied the accuracy of the Prime Minister's statement that the Irish did not feel that they were a conquered nation. The iron of conquest had entered deep into their souls, and the wounds caused by the various conquests would, he feared, hardly be healed by the honeyed words of the right hon. Gentleman, the Prime Minister. They had, however, never based their
 964
 CAPTAIN NOLAN : I rise, Sir, to a point of Order. Has the hon. Member any right to quote from a speech which he himself has declared no one heard in this House?
 COLONEL NORTH  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether an Officer who has joined the Service since the abolition of purchase is obliged to defray the passage of his successor in the event of his leaving the Army when on Foreign Service; if so, how is the money recovered from him?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, in endeavouring to address the House he must ask their indulgence, because at present he was physically unable to do justice to the great task he had set himself.
 943 944
 MR. MACARTHY DOWNING : Sir, there is no parallel between the cases of Scotland and Ireland. After the debate that has taken place, I feel that I need add little in support of the Motion before the House; nor would I venture to do so—fully satisfied as I am with the case so triumphantly established by the facts and arguments adduced by my hon. Friends who have preceded me—were it not that I entered this House the Representative—unopposed—of nearly 17,000 electors of an agricultural county, whose first requirement of me was a pledge that I would advocate in this House, and demand from it, the restoration to Ireland of her Parliament, of which she was so fraudulently deprived, in the modified form asked for to-night. Sir, were it possible that the issue to be determined to-night could be determined by a statesman selected from each of any 12 European States, I would, notwithstanding the comments of the morning papers on the debate of Tuesday, entertain no doubt as to the verdict being in favour of the claim made on behalf of Ireland. That being impossible, I entertain as little doubt as to what the result will be; at the same time hoping that in this great Assembly there are some, if not many, who laying aside prejudices, interests, and parties, will be found in what may be called the Irish Lobby. I now redeem that pledge, which it was unnecessary to ask from me, because my convictions, for many years before I entered this House, were that the regeneration of Ireland can only be achieved by her Representatives and her Peers having the management of her internal affairs, sitting in her capital—convictions fortified by my experience of this House, which however, well inclined, has neither the knowledge
 965
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, it was a matter of regret that so much of this debate had been occupied
 885 886 "That it is expedient and just to restore to the Irish Nation the right and power of managing all exclusively Irish affairs in an Irish Parliament; that provision should be made at the same time for maintaining the integrity of the Empire and the connection "between the Countries by reserving to this Imperial Parliament full and exclusive control over all Imperial affairs." "There is no impression more common, yet none more utterly erroneous, than the belief that in adopting the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman we are but demanding for Ireland the restoration of something that this country once had. I am quite prepared to demonstrate (to this assembly) that there cannot be anything like restoration in the case. … All that we can seek is of English origin. Our common law is the common law of England—the Parliament which is claimed is a Saxon institution—the hon. and learned Gentleman can trace the liberties of Ireland to no higher source than the English conquest. His claim is for Anglo-Saxon rights." "mere conventions of English settlers; irregular in their constitution, in their place, and their time of meeting, without any of the attributes
 887 "In after times, before any Parliament was called in Ireland, the heads of every Bill intended to be proposed to that Parliament were sent over to the English Privy Council, and were approved of there." "By the constitution of 1782, a Bill which might receive the unanimous consent of both the Irish Houses of Parliament required the assent of the Sovereign, under the Great Seal, not of Ireland, but of England; a Great Seal in the custody of the English Chancellor alone—a Minister responsible to the English Parliament, and not to the Irish." 888 889 890 s s d s d 891 892 893 894 895 Vic 896 897 898 899 900 "I believe that political agitation has, more than any other cause, prevented the improvement of the country. Our own dissensions have kept us back; but what is the inference from this? That it is our duty now to abandon agitation that can lead to no practical or real good, and cordially unite in a generous rivalry and co-operation to improve the condition of our people." "How much better would we consult her true interest if we all agreed that the energies which must be wasted on this project should be applied to her social improvement? What Ireland wants is repose—a rest from the fever of excitement which wastes and consumes her. We want a little interval of peace—an interval in which we might learn to forget our feuds and to reconcile with the freedom of social intercourse, with kindly feelings towards each other, with calm and serious discussion of the truth, with cordial and generous co-operation for our common country, our deep, our earnest, our solemn differences on the most important subject that can engage the feelings of man." rôle 901 902
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, the right hon. Gentleman had referred to the change of opinion which had come over the hon. and learned Member for Limerick, but he thought it did not become the Chief Secretary of the present Government to complain of that, for the present Prime Minister, under whom he served, began his political life with views very different from these which he at present entertained. What had taken place in this respect showed that men
 903 904 905 906 907 908 909 910 911 912 "The pressure of taxation will be felt most by the weakest part of the community, and as the average wealth of the Irish taxpayer is less than the average wealth of the English tax payer, the ability of Ireland to bear heavy taxation is evidently less than the ability of England." "The two countries were to unite as to future expenses on a strict measure of relative ability." 913 s d s 914
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  complained of the reception which on many occasions was afforded to Irish Members. On a late occasion he had risen at an early period in the debate upon the Gold Coast to state his opinions, formed after having given much care and attention to the subject, and after having spent much time in reading documents and Despatches connected with the Gold Coast administration, but was not afforded an opportunity of expressing his opinions. On this occasion his name and race justified him in making some observations upon the great question before the House—that, he thought, would not be disputed. In doing so he proposed to give a  resumé Gueux
 MR. P. J. SMYTH  asked the Speaker in what way the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) would be put—whether the vote would be taken on the series of Re-solutions, or on the Motion for going into Committee?
 MR. BOURKE , in reply, said, the latest intelligence received at the Foreign Office with regard to the questions referred to by the hon. Member was dated Pekin, July 11, and it was not of a satisfactory character. At the same time Her Majesty's Government had no reason to think that the Chinese Government had refused to improve the Bar of the Woosung River. Under these circumstances the correspondence was still going on, and Her Majesty's Government did not yet think it necessary to decide upon what future steps they might take.
 MR LOWE : I shall trouble the House but for a few minutes, and I would not do so at all if I did not think that I had some small contribution which will enable you to come to a right conclusion upon this subject. I entirely agree in everything that was said by my noble Friend (the Marquess of Hartington) the other night, and therefore I need not travel over the same ground as he went over. But it appears to me that this House has been more engaged with the reasons which are alleged for this change than with the nature of the change which is proposed. I would point out some of the consequences of the change which we are asked to adopt, that are well worthy of consideration. The hon. and learned Member for Limerick has been reproached for not explaining sufficiently what his plan is. I do not think he is open to that reproach. He says that he intends to invest Irishmen with full powers to legislate upon Irish affairs, reserving only Imperial powers to the Imperial Parliament. This he declares in his Resolutions, and in his speech he has also told us that he means that Irish Members are only to vote in this House upon Imperial questions, and not upon any other. Now, I undertake to show the House not only that this would be most difficult, but that it would be a moral impossibility,
 948 ultra vires 949 Laughter 950 951
 MR. R. REID  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If his attention has been called to a telegram which appeared in the "Daily News" on Friday last, stating that the Chinese Foreign Office had finally declined to undertake the operation of dredging the Woosung Bar; and, if he will inform the House what is the latest intelligence received at the Foreign Office on the subject, and what further steps Mr. Wade has taken to induce the Chinese Government to attend to the matter?
 MR. CONOLLY  regretted that he could not congratulate the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down on having thrown much light on the question in hand. The miserable and lugubrious description he had drawn of Ireland might or might not be true. For himself, he totally disbelieved it, and he thought he could scarcely have resided so long in Ireland without having ascertained that half the income of Ireland, or £20,000,000 out of £50,000,000 a-year, was uselessly drawn out of the country, as the hon. Gentleman had stated. That could not be substantiated; but even if it could, it did not follow as a  sequitur 915 916 Cries of non possumus 917 plebiscite de facto 918
 MR. SIDEBOTTOM  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has received the report of the inquest on the persons unfortunately killed in the explosion at the Astley Deep Pit Colliery in Dukinfield in April last; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Government will give facilities for a discussion of the subject and of the Motion relative to Colliery Inspection of which Notice has been given?
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that the increased contributions of the Exchequer towards the cost of the pay and clothing of the Police in Counties and Boroughs would be made as from the 1st of April this year, and the Vote for the Supplementary Estimate would be taken in about three weeks or a month from the present time.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the promised Bill relating to the Law affecting Trades Unions was likely to be introduced?
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  asked the Surveyor-General of the Ordnance, If steps are being taken to prevent the damage which would arise to a large quantity of Government Stores at Pimlico if another high tide were to rise one or two inches more than was the case on the 20th March last?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he desired to make a few observations before the debate closed, particularly after the speech which had just been made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue). He agreed with the hon. Member that this was not a measure solely affecting Ireland, but that it was one affecting the Empire at large. He rejoiced that the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) had brought this question before the House, because, having regard to what occurred at the General Election and to the number of Irish Members who came to that House pledged to support Home Rule, he thought it but right that this question should be fairly discussed, and that the reasons upon which hon. Members supported this Motion should be put before the country at large. The ground upon which the majority of the people of Ireland demanded Home Rule was that, in their opinion, Imperial legislation had failed in Ireland, and that there would never be a contented people in Ireland until it had the power in some degree of making its own laws. Under the present system of Imperial legislation, Committee after Committee had sat to investigate the condition of Ireland, and from time to time her constitution had been suspended, and the Irish people deprived of these rights which were the pride and glory of Englishmen. When the history of the 19th century came to be written, would the fault of this state of things be laid to the turbulence of the Irish people or to the mis-government of England? During the debate of 1844, which lasted nine nights, the present Prime Minister made the speech, so often quoted, in which, after describing Ireland as a country with the largest population in the world in proportion to its size, he used the following terms:—
 "That dense population in extreme distress inhabited an island where there was an established Church which was not their Church; and a territorial aristocracy, the richest of whom lived in distant capitals. Thus they had a starving population, an absentee aristocracy, and an alien Church, and, in addition, the
 945 Hansard 946 Moore's Melodies The Times 947
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  said, that being so he should raise the question by moving the following Resolution on the Motion for the Second Reading of the Turnpike Acts continuance Bill:—
 "That the continued and increasing extinction of Turnpike Trusts, as contemplated by this Bill, without due provision being made by legislation for the future management and maintenance of the roads of Turnpike Trusts so abolished, so as to avoid the hardship and injustice now entailed under the present system on the ratepayers of various parishes, is inexpedient."
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  asked the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he could give him any assurance that an opportunity would be afforded him before it was too late in the Session for bringing forward the question of the Abolition of Turnpike Trusts?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Question before the House—and which he would have to put—was that the House should immediately resolve itself into a Committee to consider the present Parliamentary relations between Great Britain and Ireland.
 MR. SPEAKER : The matter to which the hon. Member has referred is relevant to the subject-matter of debate.
 VISCOUNT EMLYN  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether any complaints have been received through the Inspecting Officers of Militia Regiments as to the proportion of bounty money now paid to recruits under the Militia Service Act of 1873; and whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to alter the regulations now in force respecting the payment of such bounty?
 SIR TOLLEMACHE SINCLAIR  asked the Postmaster General, Why the mail trains which are now run from London to Helmsdale, a distance of seven hundred miles, are not to be continued over the Sutherland and Caithness Line to Wick and Thurso, a distance of sixty miles, which forms the last link in the great line of through communication between England and Scotland; and, what security there will be for the regular conveyance of the mails to Caithness?
 MR. MACARTNEY  thought that as the law allowed the fee, the clerk of the peace should not be deprived of it without compensation.
 SIR TOLLEMACHE SINCLAIR  said, the Answer of the noble Lord was so extremely unsatisfactory, that he should take an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the subject.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, the clerk of the peace was required to perform certain duties with regard to the certificate after it had been submitted to the justices at petty sessions, for which duties the fee was payable. A claim of the same nature made by the petty sessions clerks for entering in their books the decisions of the Bench with regard to publicans' certificates, had been resisted by the publicans, but unavailingly.
 MR. SULLIVAN  protested against any change in the present law regarding the endorsement of convictions on licences, and asked the right hon. Gentleman if he could state to the Committee the number of public bodies in Ireland which had asked for the endorsement of the licences.
 MR. SULLIVAN  thought the vintners in Ireland were somewhat in the position of the boy at school who was birched for the offence of another. They could not understand the justice of the thing.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, that if an opening were given to females to defraud
 1004
 MR. SULLIVAN  supported the Amendment. He submitted that it would be throwing a strong temptation in the way of the police when they came into contact with the "young gentlemen" class, to exercise this power liberally
 1005
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, a traveller did not necessarily carry a geographical index on his countenance. He might travel many miles by railway in a few minutes, and be treated as a  bonâ fide bonâ fide
 MR. SULLIVAN , in moving the following new clause:—
 (Power to close and refuse to sell liquor.) "A licensed person shall not be bound to keep the licensed premises open, nor to admit or allow persons to remain therein, nor to sell liquor to any person, but may lawfully close and keep closed the same, and refuse to sell liquor therein, whether closed or unclosed, during the hours during which the same may be lawfully open, or any part of such hours," 1008
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he must again ask whether it was right to compel a publican to sell liquor when he did not wish to do so? Bread was a necessary article of human consumption, but they did not compel the baker to sell it if he did not think proper. He (Mr. Sullivan) must continue to protest against the superstition that drinking was a Divine thing, and that the sale of liquors should be invested with certain privileges not accorded to the sale of any other commodity.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. M'Carthy Downing) in the views he had expressed. He had received letters from several of his constituents, all approving of this proposal and not one against it. He hoped the Government would re-consider its view of this question.
 MR. SULLIVAN  appealed to the Chief Secretary for Ireland to remedy a confessed error, and to place the country in the state it was in relative to this matter
 1011
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, that by comparison with England the people in Ireland would be much worse off. What was wanted was an assimilation to the hours of England.
 THE O'CONOR DON  supported the clause, which he hoped would be accepted by the Government as a fair and reasonable compromise of the question at issue.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  who had given Notice of an Amendment to the Resolution, to leave out all the words after "Tax" in order to add the words "is alike just and politic, unless and until some other direct tax can be substituted for it against which-fewer valid objections can be stated," and which the Forms of the House prevented his moving, said: No part, Sir, of the remarks which I wish to submit to the House with reference to the Motion of the hon. Member for Londonderry will consist of a panegyric on the income tax. I am quite aware that many and serious objections can be made to that impost, and ready to allow that the way to make it perfectly fair in its incidence has not, as yet, been discovered by any financier. All that I would wish the House to affirm, if it were possible to divide on my Amendment is, that bad as the income tax may be, it would be very unjust and inexpedient to abolish it, without substituting for it some other direct tax less objectionable in its character. It is clear, Sir, that if we abolish the income tax and have not a succession of quite extraordinary surpluses, we must do one of four things—we must diminish our expenditure to the extent of our loss of Revenue; or we must add to our indirect taxation to that extent; or we must devise a new direct tax or taxes as lucrative as, and less inconvenient than, the income tax; or else we must have recourse to a composite scheme formed out of at least two of these expedients. As to the first of these possible plans, I do not think the House is prepared for so large a reduction in the Army and Navy, or in one of them, as would be necessary if we were to sacrifice the income tax without some equivalent; and even if it were, the classes not affected by the income tax would surely insist on having their share of the relief arising from our diminished expenditure. As to the second plan, it is entirely contrary to all recent policy, notably to that
 1027 le mot de l'enigme 1028 "An inevitable consequence of Customs duties is to involve the State in a series of dilemmas, with only a choice of great evils. It must either grant unrestricted liberty of importation and exportation to every spot on the coast, and along the rivers of the kingdom, thereby entailing an enormous army of tax collectors and intolerable cost of collection, or it must limit direct foreign trade to selected places, thereby disturbing the natural order of things and obstructing the development of numerous localities. It must either exact immediate payment
 1029 "You impose an Excise duty on British spirits, meant to tax only the drinkers of spirits, and to balance the duty, you must tax foreign spirits, thereby shutting your manufactures out of Continental markets, and impeding the progress of free trade throughout Europe. To collect your Excise duties you stop invention and improvement, not only in the production of the articles taxed, but in all the arts and applications in which the products are used or to which analogous improvements might be transferred. As with the tangled web we weave, when once we practise to deceive, the ramifications of loss and mischief following from one false stop in finance are endless. The loss in many instances may be slight, but all the wealth of England is an accumulation of small savings and small gains.…. About 42 millions sterling are annually advanced by producers and traders in payment of Customs and Excise duties, which otherwise would be productively employed and reproduced, yielding wages as well as profit at each turn of the capital. What is lost, therefore, by the bare advance of the duty is not merely profit, but the entire revenue that would otherwise be reproduced." 1030 "By means of this network, of which few Englishmen seem aware, while fewer still know to whom they owe it, all the great trading and industrial communities of Europe—namely, England, France, the Zollverein, Austria, and Italy—constitute a compact international body from which the principle of monopoly and exclusive privilege has been once for all eliminated, and not one member of which can take off a single duty without all the other members at once participating in the increased trading-facilities thereby created." 1031 1032 "That both contracting parties become tied, for a given time, to the respective tariff reforms on which they have agreed, is an advantage into the bargain. It helps over the danger of a reflux of public opinion arising from the trials of the first years. There is no law of political economy that does not want some time before its beneficial action can take place in full swing. In particular, division of labour wants time for supplanting competition. Whoever resolves upon free trade instead of exclusion, must resolve at once upon extending the experiment over some time. He therefore sacrifices no liberty of action if he binds himself to do so in the face of another."
 MR. GRANT DUFF  resumed: If, however, we retain the income tax for the purpose of taking off taxes which press more heavily upon the lower than the upper portions of society, the time will soon come when we shall have to reconsider our exemptions, and, above all, to face the question whether there is any insuperable objection to taxing weekly wages. The experiment has been tried for us in Prussia, where it is said perfectly to succeed, and that although, as has been well pointed out, the Prussian lower classes have at the same time to bear a tax which we have not—and thanks to our very different geographical position, I trust never will have—the tax of blood, that compulsory service which sends a large portion of their youth
 1033 "To my view, it is a right and Expedient principle—taking it in connection with all the circumstances of the case—that we should not trench upon what I would call the territory of labour,"—[3  Hansard 1034 1035
 MR. HUBBARD  (London)  heartily agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the subject (Mr. C. E. Lewis) in all the anathemas he had launched against the inequality of the operation of the tax. Upon that point no two persons would be found to disagree; and the hon. Member might almost have spared himself the trouble of appealing at considerable length to the promises of Ministers of finance and Statesmen who during the last 30 years had promised from time to time that the tax should be taken off. What we should consider was not whether such promises had been made, but whether it was for the interest of the country that the tax should be wholly abolished. He could not admit the fact of its special utility as a war tax as a reason for not attempting to remove some of its defects.
 MR. HUBBARD  continued: There was no doubt that the tax was inquisitorial, but if it carried with it large national advantages, they should consider how far the objection on the score of its inquisitorial character might not be in other respects compensated. From the remarks made by the hon. Member for Elgin (Mr. Grant Duff) upon indirect taxation, it might have been thought that he was speaking, not in the year 1874, but in 1844, before Sir Robert Peel effected the vast change which had been made in our fiscal system. No argument was needed to prove the im-policy of taxing the necessaries of life;
 1036 1037
 MR. HUBBARD  resumed his argument by pointing out if taxes were not to be paid indirectly on consumable articles they must be paid directly in the form of an income tax. The legacy, probate, and succession duties being accidental in their character could not be relied upon for an equable contribution to the public Revenue. The income tax, although it was objectionable as it was now levied, had, he considered, many advantages. The total income taxed was about £350,000,000, and of this a very large portion was assessed upon from money invested in the public funds, under Schedule C, and upon rents assessed under Schedule A. Under both those Schedules income was taxed at its source, before it reached the hands of the owners. The principal difficulty that presented itself to his mind had reference to Schedule D, and he thought that difficulty might be much diminished by assessing the profits of public companies in their dividends, just as dividends were assessed under Schedule C, a course of proceeding which would tend so far to minimize the objections felt to the Schedule. He admitted that the power of self-assessment would always be a very delicate one to exercise, but in his opinion the greater part of the dishonesty in making returns to the income tax was due not so much to immorality and a desire to defraud, as to the fault of the tax itself and the desire of the people to do themselves justice, as they believed, even at the expense of truth. The number of fraudulent and evasive returns was very small when compared with the total number of returns made. Thus out of 490,000 persons liable to the tax, 362,000 made returns, and only about 135,000 were surcharged. Of that latter number 25,000 persons appealed, and 7,000 of the appeals were dismissed, principally on the ground that the regulations of the Inland Revenue Department had not been complied with. The fact of the payment of "conscience
 1038 1039
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , referring to a Notice placed on the Paper by the hon. Member for Staleybridge (Mr. Sidebottom), stated that in accordance with the provisions of the Act of Parliament he had called upon the Inspector of Mines to make a special Report, which would, in due course, be made public by being laid upon the Table of the House.
 MAJOR BEAUMONT  said, he would not at so late an hour move the Amendment which he had placed on the Paper; but he gave Notice that at an early period next Session he would move for a Select Committee to inquire into the expediency of establishing a central inland arsenal, and to report whether the outlay caused by removal from Woolwich would not be counterbalanced by general economy in manufacture?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  hoped the Motion would not be pressed.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that at the present time the railway referred to in the Question of the hon. Gentleman was not opened, nor was he
 996
 MR. A. MILLS  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Crown Colony on the Gold Coast will be limited to the forts, or will include the towns and villages adjacent thereto; whether it is intended to garrison all the forts recently transferred by the Government of Holland to Great Britain; and, whether there will be any objection to lay upon the Table of the House, a Copy of the Commission and Instructions to be issued to the Governor to whom the administration of the combined Colony of the Gold Coast and Lagos is to be committed by Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. MELDON  said, that if the hon. and gallant Member pressed his Amendment to a division, he should, though with regret, vote against him, as he had the authority of the licensed victuallers of Ireland for saying that they had no objection to the clause.
 MR. MELDON , in moving as an Amendment, in page 10, line 2, after "constable," to insert—
 "If he has reasonable ground for believing that any of the provisions of the principal Act or this Act, which it is his duty to enforce, are being, or recently have been, violated," suo motu
 MR. D. TAYLOR  said, it seemed to him that they were making a new Bill for the clerks of the peace in Ireland.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  said, the clerks of the peace had nothing to do with the justices in petty sessions. The law was in a state that required amendment.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  said, he had consulted the trade in Ireland, and they had not any objection to the clause as it stood, being sure that neither the Dublin police nor the Royal Irish constabulary would exercise their power unnecessarily or wantonly.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  observed that the Act of 1854 was a compromise. Drunkenness had its effect in increasing rates, and there was certainly some ground for the Motion of his hon. Friend. It was a mistake to say that the clause would take away from the petty sessions clerks the whole of their emoluments, for although their nominal salaries were small, the collateral advantages attached to the posts were so large as to make the appointments very strongly sought after.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  thought that the legal test of a  bonâ fide
 MR. SYNAN  believed the clause as it stood was a very safe one, providing that a man should walk at least three miles before he should be deemed a  bonâ fide
 MR. SYNAN  said, the magistrate should not be deprived of all discretion as to the definition of "traveller."
 MR. SYNAN  said, in such matters no discretionary power should be given to the magistrates. The word "shall" should be imperative.
 MR. SYNAN  said, the clause appeared to be based upon an entire misconception, even of the statistics which had been quoted, and he hoped the clause would not be agreed to, for in his opinion it would increase the evil it was intended to mitigate.
 MR. SYNAN  observed that the hon. Gentleman wanted to "go the whole hog," and to shut up public-houses altogether. He, and he believed the House, wished to go by steps. The compromise which was proposed by the clause was one which was in accordance with the public opinion in Ireland. He believed that if they polled the Irish people, they would find 99 in every 100 in favour of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Londonderry.
 MR. SYNAN  said, he preferred the clause as it stood. The constable had to prove a matter of fact, not a matter of opinion.
 MR. SYNAN  said, that the only work clone by the clerk of the peace was upon the original grant of the licence. Under the present Bill, the petty sessions' clerk would have to keep the register, and he, if any body, should have the fee.
 MR. SYNAN  also thought the Amendment would lead to doubt and uncertainty.
 MR. GOSCHEN , in moving an Amendment to the effect that the statutes should be laid before Parliament, instead of being confirmed by the Chancellor of the University as Visitor of the College, said, reforms had in several instances been prevented at Oxford by interference of the Visitor, and it certainly was not right that one person should have the power of over-riding the opinion of the Governing Body.
 MR. GOSCHEN  asked for an explanation of the Bill.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, Amendments had been withdrawn on an understanding that they had been accepted by the promoters, and it now appeared they had not been.
 MR. BRUEN  said, he thought they should have one general rule for the whole of the country.
 MR. BRUEN  hoped these fines would be paid in alleviation of the rates.
 MR. BRUEN  suggested to the hon. Member for Limerick County to withdraw his Amendment, and to the Government to give an assurance that they would look into the matter, with the view of taking away the fee if they found that no work was done for it.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that the hon. Member for Londonderry in his able speech had truly said that the question of the repeal of the income tax occupied altogether a different position from what it had formerly done in consequence of the recent Elections; and considering the prominent position which the subject held before the public at the time of those Elections he (Mr. Fawcett) was afraid the people of this country would not put a very favourable interpretation upon the attempt of the Government to get rid of the Motion by a side-wind, as evidenced by the four attempts just made to count the House. The people might say that each party, in bidding for support, made promises which they could not fulfil. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich promised that if he were returned to power at the head of a majority, he would repeal the income tax, while the right hon. Gentleman now at the head of the Government, who might have objected to
 1044 ple-biscitum ad valorem 1045 1046 d d d d 1047 1048
 MR. J. LOWTHER : Sir, the precise extent of the area round the Ports which will be held and administered as British territory is not yet determined, and will depend upon the special sanitary and strategic requirements of each place, as to which very careful consideration is necessary. It is also not definitely settled which Ports—whether recently in Dutch occupation or previously British—will be held by an armed force; but a Report upon the present condition of the Forts has been called for, with a view to a decision being arrived at. The commission and instructions to be given to the new Governor have not yet been finally settled and submitted to the Queen, but there will be no objection to lay them on the Table at the proper time.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he could not agree that clerks of the peace in Ireland took money to which they were not entitled. One of the most eminent Judges on the Irish Bench had decided that clerks of the peace were entitled to the fee in question. He (the Attorney General for Ireland), however, assumed that the clerk of the peace must do some work for the fee, or it would not be payable; but he was not aware of the grounds on which the judgment proceeded. The clerks of the peace had at present a right to the fee; and if the fee were abolished, it would involve a question of compensation. In the certificate given for the renewal of the licence, the task was imposed of describing the various duties required by the law, such as naming the house,
 1000
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the clerk of the peace must make some entry. He did not want him to be paid for doing nothing, but if he did something he ought to be paid. As that officer was about to have considerable further duties cast upon him by the Bill, it would be unfair to take away from him that small fee.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he agreed in the spirit of the Amendment, but objected to it being inserted in the clause which created the offence. He would not have any objection to introduce it into the clause regulating the procedure, and would do so on the Report.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, there was great inconvenience in private Members bringing forward Motions of this kind, which tended to create financial deficiencies without showing how the Treasury would be recouped.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, if the Amendment were withdrawn, he would consider the matter on the Report.
 DR. LUSH  seconded the Motion.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  said, there had been four attempts to "count-out" in the course of that night, and Irish Members were faint, and most of them had gone away. They did not think the Bill would be proceeded with again that evening.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  moved as an Amendment, in page 10, line 6, after "licence is in force," to insert "except the sleeping apartments of females."
 MR. VANCE  thought the clause of the hon. Member for Wexford (Mr. Redmond)
 1012
 MR. DILLWYN  moved that Progress be reported.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  pointed out some technical difficulties which would render that arrangement insufficient. He would urge upon the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland to enable the Courts of Petty Sessions to award the fines for drunkenness occurring within their townships to the towns, and then he would do something towards making it easy to govern Ireland.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, he could corroborate the statement of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Serjeant Sherlock) for to his personal knowledge there were petty sessions clerks in Ireland who were in receipt of as much as £300 a-year. It was only discovered in 1873 that the Act of 1872 had an operation that was never intended, by depriving the towns commissioners of the benefit of fines imposed for drunkenness. When the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kildare county (Mr. Cogan) asked the then Chief Secretary for Ireland a Question on the subject, the noble Lord (the Marquess of Hartington), said that that effect had not been intended, and that the Government would give their attention to the matter with a view to remedying it. He thought under any view, that the ratepayers were entitled to the benefit of the fines imposed for drunkenness within the limits for which the commissioners were responsible.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING , in moving as an Amendment, in line 28, after "Act," to leave out to end of clause, said he did so with the object of leaving it to the discretion of the magistrate to decide who was or was not a  bonâ fide
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  moved, as an Amendment, in line 7, after
 1007
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  moved as an Amendment, in line 37, after "shillings," to insert, "provided, however, that every such person shall be a competent witness on the hearing of the complaint."
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  thought the Amendment would occasion an expenditure which would not be compensated by the advantages to be derived from it.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  thought the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland did not take a correct view of the matter. He (Mr. M'Carthy Downing) could give the House some information on the question. For a long time after the Act was passed there was not any fee required. The renewal of a licence in Ireland was obtained, not from the clerk of the peace, but from the magistrates in petty sessions. The clerk of the peace had nothing to do with the granting of it, and for the
 999 s d
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, there appeared to him to be great weight in the remarks of his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, and influenced by them, and in conformity with the suggestion of his hon. Friend behind him, he would make inquiry into the matter before the Report, with a view of seeing whether any real work was done for the money; if not, he should have no objection to accede to the view taken by the hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  moved as an Amendment, in page 9, line 18, to leave out "or," and insert—
 "which by such Act was to have been or might have been endorsed upon the licence or Excise licence, or of any Offence against this."
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  thought the insertion of the words unnecessary, as the wish of the hon. Gentleman was fully satisfied by the clause as it stood.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he had no objection, on the Report, to insert a provision on the subject of the Amendment corresponding to the one inserted in the English Bill on the same subject.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he thought that the objection to the clause would be removed if words were inserted making it compulsory on the police to bring the person arrested before a magistrate. He would propose the necessary Amendment on the Report.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  objected to the Amendment as liable to encourage an evasion of the law. Every room in a licensed house might be called the sleeping room of a female.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that was the English law. The clause as it stood considerably limited the power given to the constable under the Act of 1872. He could not enter the premises, except to prevent a violation of the Act, and he must of course have reasonable grounds for doing so.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he had not received any such application; but his wish was in this respect to assimilate the law in Ireland to that in England.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he hoped the Committee would not agree to the Amendment. He objected to it on two grounds—first, it was payable both in England and Scotland, and was an insurance for the keeping of a correct register of licences. The fee was payable for taking out the certificate for a renewal of the licence. The question had been submitted to the consideration of a Court of Law, and the decision was that the fee was legal. If this House interfered, in the face of such an opinion, and decided that this fee should not be paid in future, compensation would be required by those who were deprived of it. It was only a small amount from each publican, but formed a considerable part of the emoluments of the clerks of the peace. In any measure for regulating the fees and salaries of clerks of the peace in Ireland such a question might properly be considered, but it should not be dealt with in that Bill.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, the limit proposed in the clause was really meant for the protection of
 1006
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, it was true that the Act of 1872 made a change in the application of these fines but they were never paid into the national Exchequer. They formed part of a fund administered for the benefit of the clerks of petty sessions, many of whom were very ill-requited for their services. It was desirable that the salaries paid to them should be enlarged if that could be done by legitimate means. They were given to the clerks of petty sessions by an Act passed in 1858; and an Act of 1854 gave to the towns commissioners, for the benefit of the ratepayers, the fines imposed in the Courts of the commissioners, for the purpose of providing police, and other duties which had not been discharged as they ought to have been. There seemed to be no reason why the petty sessions fines, because some town commissioners might sit at petty sessions as magistrates, should be applied to the public purposes of the townships, and to the relief of rates levied for sanitary and other purposes. He thought the present application of those funds was the best that could be devised. It was the wish of the Government to do something to improve the position of potty sessions clerks, by an increase of pay, but that would be difficult if the fines were to be diverted from the channel into which they now flowed.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he had endeavoured to state to the Committee reasons which seemed to him valid objections to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman; but he confessed that the opinion which had been expressed on the subject on both sides of the House, and the strong feeling which it appeared to excite in Ireland, had made a great impression on him, and if by yielding to that desire he could satisfy public feeling in that country, it would give him great pleasure to do so. He therefore had a suggestion to make which he hoped the hon. Member for Wexford (Mr. Redmond) would think reasonable. It seemed to be a fair principle that fines inflicted in a Court should go to the support of that Court, but that if they were inflicted in towns, under towns commissioners, they should go to the towns; and if the hon. Member would limit his proposal to that, he would be prepared to consult with him about the matter on the Report.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : said, there was yet another objection to the clause. The hon. Member had put it to the Committee that it was a great grievance to the publican that he should be compelled to keep open his house longer than he might wish. But the Bill provided that if a publican chose to close his house on Sundays, the cost of his licence, would be diminished in proportion, and a proportionate reduction would be made according to the diminished hours of business which the publican chose to adopt. The hardship on the publican should not be forgotten, but the hardship on the public must be remembered. When a man obtained a licence to keep his house open for certain hours for the accommodation of the public, there was an implied contract by which the publican was morally bound. He obtained his licence to keep his house open for certain hours for the accommodation of the public, and it was his duty to keep it open for that purpose.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he would look into the Act to see whether their jurisdiction had really been taken away, and he would bring up a clause on the Report by which he should endeavour to meet the objections which had been stated.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  hoped the hon. Member for Londonderry would not persevere in his Motion. If he would allow the Bill to proceed, it could be considered again on the Report.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, in resisting the clause, he had in the first place to say that the hon. Gentleman was under a misunderstanding, for there was no intention to grant any suspensory clauses to Scotland; and in the next place, he had distinctly to state that the English publicans were in no way whatever interested in this question, and had taken no action upon it. What had been done in this case was what had been done in England and Scotland. In the Bill precautions were taken to render the licensing tribunal more certain and regular in its action, and to enable it to look more strictly than heretofore to the conduct of the persons holding the licences. Those provisions, he thought, would answer all necessary purposes. New licences could
 1016
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he did not propose to alter the law with regard to the hours of closing, which were fixed after careful inquiry by the Committee which sat on the subject in 1872. That Committee was composed of Irish Members fully conversant with the wants and wishes of the Irish people. He hoped that the Motion would not be carried, because it might in the end delay the passing of the measure. He was certainly opposed to the re-opening of the question under present circumstances.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he could not agree to the Motion. He was sorry that the hon. Member for Londonderry had thought fit to propose it after the exhaustive debate and decisive division at an earlier period of the Session on the question of closing public-houses in Ireland on Sunday. No doubt, the total number of hours of keeping public-houses open was greater in Ireland than in England; but the time of closing was earlier in the former than in the latter country, and great public inconvenience might ensue, if the time were further restricted. He believed it would cause discontent throughout Ireland if public-houses in large towns were closed at 7 o'clock in the evening of Sunday instead of 9, which was the hour fixed after very full consideration.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, that a mistake had been committed of which no Government ought to seek to take advantage, and in this case there was the less excuse for doing so, that it was only by the accident of the lateness of the Session last year that the mistake had not been remedied.
 MR. T. A. DICKSON  said, the public-houses in large towns were kept open
 1014
 MR. COGAN  said, he must again beg to urge on the right hon. Gentleman the restoration of the jurisdiction of the borough magistrates as it existed before the passing of the Licensing Act of 1872.
 MR. COGAN  hoped the Committee would adopt the proposal, though it might be possible to strike a compromise which would meet public convenience. He would suggest that the hour of 8 should be taken with that view.
 MR. COGAN  said, that an error had been admitted, and that only the lateness of the period last Session at which attention was directed to the subject, prevented the late Government from carrying the Bill which it had prepared to remedy it. He hoped the Government would consent to restore the jurisdiction of the borough magistrates which the Act of 1872 had taken away, so that the fines accruing might be allocated to the towns in which these offences were committed.
 MR. FORSYTH  pointed out the inconsistency of the Irish Members who often complained that there was one law for England and another for Ireland, and yet were now wanting to have a different rule in this matter applied to their country from that which the House had lately adopted for England.
 MR. FORSYTH  observed that the clause went a great deal too far, for this result might follow from its adoption—that all inns and hotels in Ireland might be closed at any hour of the day or night, resulting in great public inconvenience.
 MR. O'SULLIVAN , in moving as an Amendment, in page 7, line 26, after the word "eleven" to insert—
 "That from and after the passing of this Act it shall not he lawful for any clerk of the peace in any county, city, or town in Ireland to demand a fee from any retailer of beer or spirits on the annual renewal of a licence; but nothing herein contained shall deprive any clerk of the peace in Ireland of his right to receive a sum of two shilling's and sixpence for registering every new licence or transfer of an existing licence as provided by the Act of the third and fourth years of William the Fourth, chapter sixty-eight, section ten," s d s 998
 MR. O'SULLIVAN  moved, as an Amendment, inline 33, after "servant," to insert " bonâ fide
 MR. O'SULLIVAN  said, the Act was passed 40 years since, and it was only within the last 15 or 16 years that the clerks of the peace began to claim the 2 s d
 MR. O'SULLIVAN  said, it was really too bad to hear the right hon. Gentleman so express himself. The right hon. Gentleman said there should be no objection to the clerk of the peace receiving 2 s d s d s d
 MR. O'SULLIVAN  said, he knew from experience that the clerk of the peace did nothing. The magistrates at petty sessions gave the applicant a certificate, and he took it to the Excise Department. The clerks of the peace were levying "black mail" without any title in law to do so. He had been told that the House of Commons was always ready to redress grievances. Well, he hoped they would remove that grievance,
 1001
 MR. REDMOND , in moving the following new clause:—
 (Appropriation of fines and penalties.) From and after the passing of this Act all fines and penalties imposed and levied under section twelve of the principal Act, at petty sessions held in towns, which are under 'The Towns Improvement (Ireland) Act 1854,'
 1009
 MR. REDMOND  said, that the limitation proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland would have the effect of excluding the greater number of these fines.
 MR. R. SMYTH  in moving the following new clause—
 (Hours for sale of intoxicating liquors between Saturday evening and Monday morning.) "From and after the passing of this Act it shall not he lawful for any licensed person or spirit grocer, in towns the population of which does not exceed five thousand, to sell intoxicating liquors between the hour of ten o'clock on Saturday night and two o'clock in the afternoon of Sunday, or between the hour of seven o'clock on Sunday night and seven o'clock on Monday morning; and in towns the population of which exceeds five thousand, it shall not be lawful for such licensed person or spirit grocer to sell intoxicating liquors between the hour of 11 o'clock on Saturday night and two o'clock in the afternoon of Sunday, or between the hour of seven o'clock on Sunday night and seven o'clock on Monday morning; Provided always, That nothing herein contained shall prevent such sale of intoxicating liquors to  bonâ fide 1013
 MR. R. SMYTH  said, he was an advocate of the doctrine of the assimilation of the laws of the two countries only so far as the English law which it was proposed to apply to Ireland was good; but objected altogether to take from England a bad law.
 MR. R. SMYTH  said, the interpretation of  bonâ fide
 MR. R. SMYTH  said, he saw no reason why, when they had introduced a new Licensing Bill for Ireland in which alterations had been made, they should not take the opportunity of revising the Irish law also. He was willing to accept the suggested hour of 8 as a compromise.
 MR. R. SMYTH , in moving the following new clause—
 (Restriction on the grant of new licences.) "From and after the passing of this Act it shall not be lawful for the licensing authority or Inland Revenue Department to grant any new certificate for a licence for the sale of intoxicating liquors—First. In any town or populous place in which the number of licensed houses shall at any time exceed the proportion of one such house to 700 of the population. Second. In rural districts, in respect of any premises situated within one mile at least of any other premises in respect of which a certificate has been granted: Provided, that the licensing authorities may, if they think fit, grant new certificates for hotels, containing in towns and
 1015
 MR. R. SMYTH  hoped the Government were not in earnest in asking the House to go again into Committee on this Bill at that late hour—past 1 in the morning. It was not fair to Irish Members, and such a course would not be taken on the English Licensing Bill. He should move to report Progress.
 MR. R. SMYTH  moved the omission of the clause, by which a policeman was enabled to discharge from custody a person whom he had arrested without bringing him before a magistrate.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, he was quite willing to accept the issue on that ground. Supposing this was for the renewal of a licence, and that a fee was to be paid for it, it was improper to take the fee away. The object of the certificate was for seeing that the houses were kept in an orderly manner. He submitted that the clause in question was intended to put an end to a doubtful state of the law. The clerk of the peace performed services for which he received a fee. It should be borne in mind that a register was kept from time to time of the houses and the renewals of the licences, and if the House of Commons withdrew that requirement from the Bill, the result would prove most unsatisfactory, and the register would be kept in a slovenly and incorrect manner. He submitted that the clause ought to be maintained in its present state.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS , in moving as an Amendment, in page 7, line 28, after "shall," to insert—
 "between the tenth and twenty-fifth days of December in each year, print the list or register
 1002
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  hoped the Amendment would be withdrawn. If, as the Attorney General for Ireland had stated, the fee had been pronounced by an eminent Judge to be legal, then it ought to be maintained. It appeared to him that the matter ought not to be decided upon the mere question whether the clerk of the peace did any work for the fee, but whether it was taken into account in the settlement of the amount of his general remuneration. If they took away that which had been recognized as remuneration for the performance of his general duty, they would take away that which was declared to be legal and in accordance with the Act.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, that the clause as it stood provided only for the transmission of the list to the clerk of petty sessions, and not to the bench of magistrates.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS , in rising to move the following Resolution:—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the continued imposition of the Income Tax, except in time of war or some great national emergency, is unjust and impolitic, and it is advisable that such Tax should be still further reduced and ultimately altogether repealed at the earliest possible moment," 1017 1018
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  resumed: Another remarkable feature in the matter was that in the course of the last Session the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing) argued on the broadest and most extensive grounds, in favour of the maintenance of the income tax as a permanent portion of the financial system of the country; but the challenge thrown down was not taken up by any person in authority, and a still more ominous circumstance was found in the fact that only recently the present Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken deprecatingly of getting rid of this mighty structure of finance. That was, of course, only an indication of the difficulty which the right hon. Gentleman felt on the subject of dealing with the tax in such a way as to lead to its entire abolition. It had been said that the proper occasion on which to challenge the tax was on the introduction of a Budget. He could not, however, agree in that view. It would avail little for any hon. Member, when a Budget proposing an income tax of 2 d 1019 d 1020 "Our principles with regard to the income tax require three things—in the first place, to marl; it effectually as a temporary tax." 1021 1022 s d The Times s 1023 d 1024 1025
 MR. C. E. LEWIS , as the Representative of a large constituency in the North of Ireland, supported the clause.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in supporting the Amendment, said, it was customary in some counties in Ireland to pay the fee of 2 s d
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  said, he thought the evident desire to count out the House, and the fact that when the late Prime Minister appealed to the country on this question, he was defeated by a large majority, did not bear out the statements made of the unpopularity of the income tax. It was urged that the tax should be abolished, because it was a war tax; but it would be as logical to abolish the impost in a time of peace because it was a war tax, as it would be to abolish the Army and Navy; and if the tax was to be relied upon in time of war, its machinery should be kept going in time of peace. Though he could not accept the Resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Londonderry, he had never disguised from himself the strong arguments which could be brought against the income tax. The tax was said to be inquisitorial, unpopular, and unjust. But there was no tax against which grave accusations could not be brought. The objections to indirect taxation were also very great, and before the House was really in a position to condemn the income tax, they ought to be satisfied that the other taxes were not even greater offenders. He did not, then, deny that the income tax had many disadvantages, and, indeed, he might almost be said, using Voltaire's expression, to support it only as the cord supported the criminal. Still, some taxes must remain, and before they abolished the income tax on account of its demerits, they must satisfy themselves that they could replace it by a better. They were told that the income tax was unjust for two principal reasons; firstly, because it fell equally on temporary and permanent incomes; and, secondly, because the same rate was imposed on income derived from individual exertion as on that from real property. But the first objection held good only as long as the tax was temporary, and manifestly did not apply to it if permanent. As regarded the second objection—namely, that the income tax fell more heavily upon professional and mercantile incomes than on wages or on real property, that in itself was no doubt unfair. But, on the other hand, if other taxes fell especially on consumers, and our rates on real property, the very inequality in the income tax might be an
 1040 1041 1042 1043
 MR. MOWBRAY  stated its object.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not attempt to challenge the discretion of the hon. Member for Londonderry in having brought forward his Motion at the present period of the Session, or the terms he had thought fit to select for it. It could not have been in better hands; but, at the same time, while recognizing the great importance of the subject, as well as the value of the debate which had taken place upon it, he claimed on behalf of the Government that they should not be fettered in their discretion by any premature pledge on that subject. He would make that claim not only on behalf of the Government, but he might venture to ask the House to make the claim for itself; because if the House should now, at the end of the Session, when nothing practical could be done, commit itself to an abstract Resolution of this character, they would find themselves hampered when they came to consider the financial proposals of next year. He had no complaint to make as to the language which had been used during the debate; but he could not help remarking that there had been throughout the debate almost an unusual amount of reference to speeches previously made, and declarations said, to have been made by different Members belonging to both sides of the House; and the Government were asked now to take, or not to take, certain steps with reference to those declarations. The language both of the late Prime Minister
 1049 d 1050 d 1051 d d
 VISCOUNT CRICHTON  saw no reason why fines inflicted within the jurisdiction
 1010
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, a deputation waited on me, which was a very influential one. It comprised the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the School Board, as well as the hon. Members for that district. They represented the urgent need which exists of an extension of the hours of bathing in Victoria Park, and instanced the fact that in the neighbourhood there were over 30,000 boys at school who were unable to bathe at the hours now allowed in the morning. Seeing that the privilege they asked is already allowed in the Serpentine, I visited the Park and found that the obstacles to this concession were not serious. I have, therefore, sanctioned arrangements as an experiment, by which bathing will on Thursday next up to the 30th of September be allowed in the large lake for the hour immediately preceding that which is fixed for the closing of the Park.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the matter required discussion, and therefore at that period of the Session, it must stand over.
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he proposes to purchase the block of buildings between the new Home and Colonial Offices in Parliament Street and St. Margaret's Square?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, the subject of improved accommodation for the War Office and other Departments is now under consideration of the Government, and of course it would be premature to say whether these arrangements will include the purchase of the block of buildings to which the hon. Member's Question refers.
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has now come to any decision with regard to the new roadway from Hamilton Place to Grosvenor Place?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, whatever decision I have formed, the plan is not yet matured sufficiently to enable me to submit it for the sanction of Parliament.
 MR. HAMOND  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is a fact that his Department detained the "Parga" and the "Western Ocean" for survey as unseaworthy ships, and that they were both afterwards released, and compensation paid to the owners for detention; and, whether he has heard that both ships have since disappeared, with their entire crews, and, if so, what steps will be taken to obtain from the owners repayment of the compensation so paid?
 MR. SCOURFIELD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he would direct inquiries to be made if any improvement can be effected in the means of securing competent interpreters in the different Courts of Justice in Wales where the Welsh language is generally spoken?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he would communicate with the County Court Judges on the subject.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he will lay upon the Table of the House a Copy of the Correspondence received from the Governor of Singapore as to the war between the Dutch and the Sultan of Atchin, and of Correspondence with the Government of the Hague relative thereto; and, if it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to offer their mediation with a view to terminate the war?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said: This Bill refers to a subject which has greatly interested the people of Scotland for a long time. Church patronage has been the cause of much contention, and also the cause of many secessions from the Church of Scotland, and I think that men of different political opinions have now arrived at the conclusion that it is expedient there should be some legislation with regard to the matter. Opposition may be expected to the Bill
 1087 "I think that in discussing this question in the British Parliament we are bound to regard it with peculiar care. We must look at it, not with English feelings, nor with the prejudices of Englishmen, but we are bound to regard it upon the principles of the Union, and to try and settle the question upon Presbyterian principles, as established by the Act of 1090, the Act of Union, and subsequent statutes."—[3  Hansard 1088 "It appertaineth to the people and to every several congregation to elect their minister. This liberty with all care must be reserved to every several church, to have their votes and suffrages in the election of their ministers." "The ministers and elders, at such time as there wanteth a minister, assemble the whole congregation, exhorting them to advise and consider who may best serve in that room and office." "that the examination and admission of ministers within this realme be only in the power of the Kirk now openlie and publickly professed the samin, the presentation of laick patronages alwaies reserved to the just and auncient patrons." 1089 "that if the Presbytery refuse to receive the person presented, the patron may appeal to the members of the province where the benefice lyis, and desire the person presented to be admitted, quhilk if they refuse, it shall be lawful to appeal to the General Assemblie of this haill realm by quhome the cause be and decyded sall take end, as they decern and declair." "ordainis all presentations to benefices to be direct to the particular presbyteries in all time dimming, with full power to give collation thereupon; and to put ordour to all matters and causes ecclesiasticall within their boundes, according to the discipline of the Kirk: Providing the foresaids Presbyteries be bound and astricted to receive and admit quhatsumever qualified minister presented by His Majesty or laick patrones." 1090 1091 1092 "The British Legislature violated the Act of Union and made a change in the constitution of the Church of Scotland. From that change has flowed almost all the dissent now existing in Scotland. From the Act of 1712 undoubtedly flowed every secession and schism that has taken place in the Church of Scotland." 1093 1094 1095 1096 1097 1098 "He only hoped that when any question arose as to the number of adherents of various religions denominations in England, it would not he again suggested, as had been done on former occasions, that these who opposed this Census were able to number themselves by millions in this country."—[3  Hansard
 MR. GLADSTONE : I think, Sir, there can Le no doubt that the sentiments expressed by the hon. Member for Bute, particularly in the latter portion of his speech, are such as do him individually high honour; but whether, on the other hand, they are equally calculated to recommend this Bill to the support of many of these who are favourably inclined to it may be another question; for the hon. Member, having been, as he says, threatened with disestablishment, does not seem at all disinclined to accept the challenge, his view being that if we are near disestablishment, it is well we should know it, and that after all there are worse things than disestablishment. Sir, these may be very sound opinions, but they are not, I think, the opinions with which this Bill has been introduced; and the hon. Gentleman has rather marked a division which subsists between himself and many of these by whom he is surrounded, than contributed greatly to strengthen the view of the question by which they will probably be governed. For myself, I must say I am exceedingly sorry to find myself involved in a new ecclesiastical controversy. I had hoped that this was a question which might have been dealt with in such a manner, with such a careful regard to preliminary examination, and the removal of difficulties, that when it came before Parliament it would be found consonant with the general opinions and views of the people of Scotland, and would be capable of being considered with reference only to the provisions of the Bill itself. I am not able, for myself, to avoid giving my opinions upon the subject. I was one of a number of Gentlemen—now very small—who watched with much interest the progress of the controversy which began in 1834 and ended in 1843; and I did not at that time scruple to state in print my opinion that so far as the traditions and principles of the original Scotch Reformation were concerned, the Free Church—these who afterwards became the Free Church—whatever might be the incompatibility of their views on national Establishments, were certainly the heirs of the principles of these theological traditions that are connected with the Scotch Reformation. Now I will state very shortly what I think are the rules by which we, the Parliament of
 1114 1115 1116 1117 "congregations shall mean and include communicants and such other adherents of the church as the kirk session (a self-elected body) under any rules and regulations to be issued by the General Assembly or commission thereof." 1118 1119 1120 1121 Laughter 1122 1123 1124
 MR. GLADSTONE : I have looked at the foot of the column, and I can find
 1125 1126 1127 Peccavi; 1128 Cheers 1129 1130
 MR. GLADSTONE  dissented from the accuracy of the statement.
 1132
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAX-WELL  tendered his thanks to the right hon. and learned Gentleman below him, the Lord Advocate, for having introduced this Bill. He had been struck in the course of the discussion with the very anxious concern shown by hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House to avert disestablishment in Scotland, which they had so loudly proclaimed and so largely applied elsewhere. It was very kind and considerate on the part of the opponents of establishment to take that course; but he would venture to say the General Assembly of the Church, which had long advocated this or a similar measure, knew more of its own feelings, position, prospects, and duties, than the hon. Gentleman the Member for Orkney. That hon. Gentleman, following the lead of the right hon. Gentleman who had moved the Amendment, had told the House that this was a subject which did not occupy much attention at the General Election. He (Sir William Stirling-Maxwell) was quite willing to admit that to have been the case, but he thought he could give a pretty good reason why it was so. They must all remember a certain manifesto of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone), in which he mentioned a great many exciting topics, but said nothing about this particular question. It would be a great mistake to suppose that, though not a prominent topic, it was not in the minds of men at the time. The subject was not one which commended itself to these electors, who occupied the distinguished position of catechists, of whom he would speak with all respect, but who nevertheless were not always the leaders and guides of opinion in their districts. But although these catechists refrained from putting any question on the subject,
 1148 rôle 1149 1150 1151
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, there would be great difficulties in adjourning the debate; but if the second reading of the Bill were carried, another opportunity would be given for discussing on going into Committee.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, if the hon. Members from Scotland were generally of opinion that the subject had been sufficiently discussed, he would not press for an adjournment; but if they were of a different opinion, then their wishes ought to be consulted. There would be no saving of time if the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken was adopted, and the principle of the Bill were discussed over again on going into Committee. For his own part, he was not in the least disposed to offer opposition on the details of the Bill.
 MR. NOEL  also appealed to the Government to adjourn the debate.
 DR. CAMERON  said, that not one of the Members representing large constituencies in Scotland had had an opportunity of speaking on the Bill.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had made his arrangements for the conduct of the Business of the House during the remainder of the week, he could not be expected to accomplish impossibilities. He (Mr. Gladstone) hoped, therefore, that the House would accept the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman with regard to Monday.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would suggest another alternative. He would
 1185
 MR. ORR-EWING : If the right hon. Gentleman will be good enough to refer to the foot of the column, he will find that among these returned as not belonging to the Established Church, there is a large proportion of the population who cannot be said to belong to the Nonconformists.
 MR. DISRAELI  saw no reason why they should not go on and conclude the debate to-night. He had simply opposed the adjournment because it would not be in his power to offer a day, except at such an interval as would be very inconvenient to these who would follow in the debate. The next day (Tuesday) was occupied with important Government Business, and he had given Thursday for another Bill. The House had better sit two or three hours longer, and finish the debate to-night. If it were adjourned he could not name a day for resuming the debate earlier than Monday next. As he had been charged with rising early in the debate, he wished to say that he rose because it did not appear to him that any hon. Gentleman on either side of the House cared to rise, and not because he wished to prevent the debate from going on.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had opposed the adjournment because he could not give another day this week. He had only two clays, and he had promised the first day at his disposal. He did not understand why they had had the last division.
 MR. DISRAELI  thought it was scarcely a reasonable proposition. He would not say it had been an exhaustive debate; but there would be other opportunities of speaking on the subject, and considering the time of the year, he could not consent to the adjournment.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, this Bill, which in another House of Parliament was supported and blessed by more than one Colleague of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, has, I am sorry to say, been banned by that right hon. Gentleman in this House. If that were the only consideration for his re-appearance among us, I would endure it, though with regret, because I must express the general feeling of the House that we have all missed him, and
 1176 1177 1178 1179 "Patronage had probably the same origin in England as in Scotland. Since the Reformation, however, the history of the institution is wholly different in the two countries. The only complaint I make is, that in assigning one year's stipend as the amount of compensation my noble Friend has given the patrons very
 1180 ipse dixit 1181 The Claims, Principles, and Policy of the Free Church 1182 1183
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, the Board of Trade did detain the  Parga Western Ocean Parga Western Ocean Parga Western Ocean
 MR. FRASER-MACKINTOSH  said, it could hardly be questioned that a great wrong was committed against the Church of Scotland in 1843, and as the Bill would help to repair that wrong, it would have his hearty support. On the subject he should like to quote some words of that very eminent Scotsman, Lord Cockburn. He said—
 "The Star Chamber never made greater encroachments on the common law of England than the Court of Session made on the ecclesiastical law of Scotland." 1136 1137 1138
 MR. MELDON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it is a fact that in England the expense of obtaining vaccine lymph for the purposes of compulsory vaccination is defrayed by the State, whereas in Ireland Poor Law Unions and Dispensary districts must contribute to the cost; if there is any reason why the
 1084
 MR. MONK  hoped that the Government would not give way. It was not usual on matters of the kind to close the debate before 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning. If this debate were adjourned, another night would be asked for the debate on the Public Worship Regulation Bill, and, if so, what hope was there that this Session would ever come to an end?
 MR. RITCHIE  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any plan has been approved by him for carrying-out the objects of the deputation which lately waited upon him to ask for the extension of the facilities for bathing in Victoria Park to the evening?
 COLONEL ALEXANDER : Sir, both as a Representative of a Scotch county, and as taking an intense interest in the subject under discussion, I may perhaps ask the indulgence of the House in making a few observations, and in offering my humble but nevertheless hearty congratulations to Her Majesty's Government on the introduction of a Bill which I think will do much to promote the prosperity as well as conduce to the stability of the Church Established in Scotland. Sir, I am unwilling to introduce party politics into a question of the kind, but as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) has taunted, to-night, the Tory party with having done nothing on this question in 1843, I must ask him, what the Whigs did in 1833? Sir, this was not a question of a year only; it was called "the ten years' conflict." When Dr. Chalmers proposed the Veto Act in 1833, the Whigs were in office, but they did nothing; and in the following year, when Dr. Chalmers again proposed and carried the same Act, they still did nothing. Then followed the decision of the Court of Session, when the Judges, by a majority of eight to five pronounced the Veto Act illegal, but the Whigs made no sign. Finally, when the House of Lords affirmed the judgment of the Court of Session, they acted as before and were not in the least alarmed, thus justifying the saying of that excellent Whig (Lord Cockburn) that "the Whigs were quite as bad as the Tories." Sir, let bygones be bygones, and let neither party throw stones, for both live in glass houses. Nominally, Sir, this is a Bill for the abolition of patronage, but in reality, as has been well stated in "another place," it is rather a Bill for the transference of patronage, for, in fact, placing it on a broader and more popular basis. For I may be permitted to remind hon.
 1162 "The case in its truth is not pervious at all to the English understanding. Hostility to patronage has never been a popular feeling indigenous in their Established Church. The independence of Ecclesiastical Courts is an idea that cannot arise in a Church which acknowledges the Crown as its head. The mere claim of a right to reject a Presentee without giving good reasons is incomprehensible to an Englishman." "In Scotland, ever since the Reformation, there has been no absolute patronage. During the whole of this period, by the law of the Church, and during a great portion of it by the law of the State, the communicants and parishioners bad an almost co-equal right with the patron to the appointment of the ministers. At all times they had been largely consulted, and at no time had it been possible, without serious danger to the interests of the Church, for the patron to exercise an arbitrary choice as he could have done in England."—[3  Hansard 1163 "That the law of 1649 did not abolish patronage properly speaking, but vested it in the Kirk Session, through the General Assembly." "The law of 1690, which gave the right not to the Church, not to the people, but to the heritors and elders, was nothing else than a species of laic patronage." "Was, that a year afterwards, a measure for the repeal of the Union was brought forward in the Upper House when the numbers were equal, and the Union was only saved by a majority of four proxies."—[3  Hansard post hoc ergo propter hoc "Because a duty was imposed on malt all the Scots of both Houses met together and agreed to move for an Act dissolving the Union, and it was stated in the House of Lords, that 'the imposition which was to be laid on their malt
 1164 1165 "That it was according to the genius of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland that the election of ministers should be in the hands of the people."—[3  Hansard "That Parliament should he invited at the earliest fitting opportunity to resume these investigations of 1834, so as they might have the opportunity of gathering material and satisfying the House as to the real convictions and wishes of the people of Scotland in regard to the law of patronage."—[3  Hansard 1166 ab ovo "by joining them in an application to Parliament to demand, as the certain, safe, and complete remedy for these evils, the immediate and entire abolition of the connection between Church and State." "the Dissenters having invested money in churches and endowments on the faith of abuses in the Church, it was unfair in Government or in any Liberal man to do anything towards the correction of these abuses." 1167 The Times "The Bill is directly antagonistic to the position which the Synod firmly holds—that the legislation immediately demanded, and which alone can meet the circumstances of the case, is disestablishment and disendowment. There is nothing in the Bill for which these should spare it who know the more excellent way. The strongest reasons exist why both patronage and endowment, as parts of one system, should be at once abolished." "That the existence of patronage was not the ground of the disruption. The Church was called upon to obey the law—that is to say, to take the decisions of the civil courts as authentic declarations of the limit of her jurisdiction, and as authoritative declarations of the limit of her jurisdiction, and as authoritative directions with respect to particular acts of it." 1168 "cast off the establishment from no political motive, but purely from dictates of conscience, the sincerity of which is attested by the sacrifice, not merely of professional station and emoluments, but of all worldly interests." 1169 "reported to be subject to an occasional exuberance of animal spirits, and is considered to be destitute of a musical ear, which prevents the correct modulation of his voice. The presentee to Kirkholm had an unnatural conformation of one of his feet, which made him halt in his gait, and assume grotesque and unnatural attitudes and action in the pulpit. The presentee to Kilbrandon not only read every word of his sermon, but his reading was uniformly bad, stuttering, often ungrammatical, always without emphasis, measure, or pathos, retaining the same heavy, unnatural intonation of voice in every stage of the discourse, whether argumentation, illustration, application, or exhortation; and all this without one redeeming look, attitude, or gesture to attract the interest or command the attention of his audience." vultus instantis tyranni civium ardor prava jubentium 1170
 MR. M'LAREN  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman not to oppose the Motion for the Adjournment. Only two Scotchmen had spoken in the debate, and no Members of the large towns had yet spoken upon the question.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, there were 13 Scotch Members who had not spoken. He had risen nine times before he had been successful.
 MR. HORSMAN  thought there would be no difficulty in adjourning the debate. The right hon. Gentleman would find himself mistaken if he imitated the policy of the late Government in riding over the House with what, last Session, was called a mechanical majority. That was by far the most important measure of the Session, and there was no reason why it should not be proceeded with to-morrow. He hoped therefore that the right hon. Gentleman would not put the House and Government in a false position by postponing the discussion of the Bill for a whole week.
 MR. HORSMAN  considered the Motion for Adjournment only reasonable, for, in his opinion, the Prime Minister had risen early in the evening for the purpose of closing the discussion.
 MR. E. JENKINS  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LEATHAM : Sir—Whenever a Scotch question is before the House, I feel as though I ought to apologize to my hon. Friends from the other side of the Tweed for attempting to take part in the debate, so ample is the mastery which they invariably display over all questions affecting Scotland, and so profound is my ignorance of the rich Doric nomenclature, without which it would seem to be impossible adequately to discuss these questions. But, Sir, the subject which is now under discussion touches upon principles which are of wider application, and that is why I venture to ask the indulgence of the House while I make a few remarks upon a Scotch Bill. The Lord Advocate and hon. Members who have supported the second reading of this Bill, have laboured hard to show that if it should become law, it will tend to strengthen the Establishment in Scotland. I am unable to follow hon. Gentlemen to that conclusion. Scotland is a very practical country, but it is a highly contentious country, and there is no subject upon which there exists quite the same power of contention in the Scottish mind, as upon all that relates to the
 1171 1172 "The grievance consists in giving, by State establishment, to the Church of a small minority of the Irish people, a superiority of rank, and an exclusive right—a right which no other religious body in the country possesses—to have its laws deemed part of the laws of the land, and to have Courts maintained for the execution of these laws."—[3  Hansard "A Bishop or minister is not the Bishop or minister of every man in a diocese or parish, but only of these who choose to come to him." 1173 1174 1175
 MR. E. J. REED  explained that it was only his desire to avoid embroiling himself with the owners that had made him hesitate to give the steamer's name. If the House desired it, however, he should have no hesitation in giving her name. The vessel was the  Fuh Li;
 MR. E. J. REED  in reply, said, that he had taken pains to trace the name of the vessel, and having ascertained it, he had communicated it to his hon. Friend the Member for Hull (Mr. Norwood) some days ago. He had no personal information as to her tonnage, but he had learnt from his hon. Friend that she was only about 100 tons gross register, and loaded with fuel. That she was about to proceed for China, and was in the condition he had described, he had no doubt.
 MR. VERNER  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If his attention has been given to the action of the Roman Catholic priesthood towards the model school at Limerick; and, if so, if he will be good enough to say whether the
 1086
 MR. COLLINS  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he proposes to bring in the Bill relating to the pay of the Royal Irish Constabulary to continue the provisions of the Act of 1873; and, whether, before the introduction of such a Bill, he will take into consideration the claims of the officers, with the view to embody in it a clause regulating their pensions on the scale of pay existing at the time of their retirement from the force?
 MR. ANDERSON  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any complaint has reached the Foreign Office of great hardships and losses inflicted on British subjects in America through a Custom House rule that any error in an invoice forfeits the whole amount of that invoice, being of late held to apply to even the smallest clerical errors without fraudulent intent; and, whether any representations have been made by Her Majesty's Government on the subject?
 MR. ANDERSON  moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : My attention, Sir, has not been called, except by the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, to any recent outbreak of small-pox at Gloucester. In the month of January last, the Local Government Board were informed by their Inspector that there were nine small-pox cases in the infectious wards of the workhouse, when steps were immediately taken to advise the Guardians as to their duty, and the Town Council were also called upon to provide hospital accommodation. This they professed themselves willing to do in concert with neighbouring sanitary authorities, whose jurisdiction comprises the suburbs of Gloucester, but difficulties seem to have occurred which, it is hoped, will be removed by a private Bill now passing through Parliament,
 1083
 MR. LEITH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR : This Bill must be viewed in different lights, even on this side of the House, according as hon. Members are favourable or hostile to State Churches. It is with a desire to promote the interests of the Church of Scotland that I approach the consideration of the Bill. I was brought up within that Church, and my forefathers were among its ministers. It has a strong claim upon the sympathies of all Scotchmen. By its agency the character of the Scotch people has been moulded, and they owe to it a deep debt of gratitude for the care which it has bestowed upon their temporal, as well as upon their eternal interests. It is as a Church of the people, from among whom its ministers have sprung, that the Church of Scotland has exercised its great influence on the development of the country. And it is only as a Church of the people that its influence can continue. Its doctrines do not differ from these of the Protestant Dissenting Bodies around it. In the eyes of Liberals, at least, no Church in this country possesses inherent rights of Ecclesiasticism or of Catholic pretension. A Church either exists as a Church for the people, or it should cease to exist as a Church of the State. The genius of the Scotch Church has always been democratic, and the Bill legislates in the direction of popular election; but it halts in its course. Formerly each church belonged to and included all the people of a parish. And even now the competing Churches profess the same standards as the Church of Scotland, and only differ from it in not possessing State endowments. The Bill, which abolishes patronage, converts a National Church into one of several self-contained religious communities. From the most primitive times of the Church, the whole body of believers was invited to aid in the election of ministers. It was "the whole multitude" that chose Stephen and the six other deacons, as described in the sixth chapter of the Acts. It was not a more Congregationalism which was in the mind of John Knox, when he laid down as a rule of the Church in the First Book of Discipline, that "it appertained unto the people, and to every several congregation, to elect their minister." What could be his object in introducing the
 1152 "We propose that the trust should be devolved on the proper beneficiaries—the people of the parish—these who have the main interest in the selection of the minister." 1153 "Concessions therefore which would once have extinguished Nonconformists would not now satisfy even one-half of the Nonconformists; and it was the obvious interest of every Nonconformist, whom no concession would satisfy, that none of his brethren should he satisfied." 1154 jus devolutum 1155 "the people of this realm that profess Christ as He is now offered in the Evangel, and do communicate with the Holy Sacraments, as in the Reformed Kirks of this realm they are publicly administered according to the Confession of Faith." 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160 quasi 1161
 MR. MARK STEWART  proceeded to say that, though not a Member of the Cabinet at that time, the right hon. Gentleman was a Member of the Government; and that it was notorious, notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in the course of his speech, that for some years past there had been a very active part taken by some of the leading Presbyterian denominations and the Liberation Society, in stirring up the question of disestablishment, and that had it not been for the short period over which the late General Election ranged, the cry of disestablishment would have sounded throughout the length and breadth of the land. That being so, the Government were right, he contended, in introducing the present Bill; for the question of patronage had been a sore in the side of the Church ever since 1560; and if that union, of which the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate spoke so emphatically, could be secured, he should be glad to take any step for the purpose of having one strong Presbyterian Church in Scotland. Before the schism of 1843, that country did not know what it was to have a poor law, and, in fact, patronage had in several ways been the cause of the greatest possible mischief. Again, it was not denied for a moment, that most of their ecclesiastical divisions had arisen from the same source. Divisions had arisen where there were none previously, and he contended that the present Bill, if passed, was capable of putting an end to all such strife in future. They had no desire to proselytize, but they would be glad to hear that the causes of disunion in the Presbyterian Church were removed. Indeed, they had a good instance in Scotland of the  quoad sacra 1133 1134 1135
 MR. MARK STEWART  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had alleged that the Bill was not in consonance with the prayer of the General Assembly; but in 1869 or 1870 the prayer of the General Assembly set forth that patronage was a grievance, an injury to true religion, a main cause of the difficulties which beset the Church, and that it ought to be abolished. The right hon. Gentleman had also dwelt on the difference between the General Assembly itself and the Commission appointed by it; but before separating in May last, the General Assembly issued a Commission and gave it full power and authority to act; and the Commission was not therefore to be put aside in the manner the right hon. Gentleman had adopted. It had been urged that every ratepayer in the parish ought to be admitted to the electing body; but that would let in not only both the large and small heritors, but hundreds and thousands of persons who had nothing to do with the Church. That would lead to great confusion, and it would be impossible to say what sort of a minister you would get under such a system. The right hon. Gentleman criticized very severely the compensation which was to be given in cases where patronage was abolished, but he must bear in mind that livings such as that to which he had referred were no longer so valuable as they were previous to 1843, and it might be doubted if some were even marketable. His argument, moreover, in a great measure was founded on ignorance of the wants and wishes of the people. Lord Aberdeen's Act, to which reference had been made, really aggravated these evils which it was designed to remedy, and its intricacies and ambiguities were a constant source of difficulty to every presentee, while it raised points of law which an
 1131 Peccavi
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, his attention had been called to the case, and he found that on the 18th of April last the National Board of Education had received a letter from the District Inspector, stating that the Rev. D. Fitzgerald, a Roman Catholic clergyman, had on the 16th of the same month visited the Limerick Model School, inspected the school register, as he was, as a visitor, at liberty to do, and taken with him copies of entries in these books having reference to the addresses of the Roman Catholic pupils' parents, which the rev, gentleman should not have done. It further happened that the master in charge was only  locum tenens
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, a Notice stood on the Paper for the introduction of the Bill referred to that evening. He hoped it would contain a clause relating to pensions.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, in England a gratuitous supply of vaccine lymph is provided by the State for these who choose to avail themselves of it, whereas in Ireland subscriptions of one guinea a-year are paid by the various Unions to the Dublin Cow Pock Institution for whatever supply of lymph they may require. This 'Institution is also supported by other subscriptions, by money received for the sale of lymph, and by a Government Grant of £400 a-year. As a matter of fact, however, I am informed that the bulk of the public vaccinators in Ireland prefer storing and using their own lymph to any supply from London or Dublin, whether gratuitous or paid for. In order to ensure a gratuitous supply of lymph in Ireland as in England, it would require that the present grant of £400 a-year should at least be doubled; and whether that sum can be given is a question more for the decision of the Treasury than for myself. But, if such an arrangement were made, I think the management of the matter should be intrusted, as in England, to the Local Government Board, rather than to the Dublin Cow Pock Institution, which is in the nature of a private Institution.
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  said, he should certainly vote for the second reading of the Bill; but he thought the Scotch Members should be heard, and he did not see what objection there was to proceed with the debate without any adjournment.
 MR. BOURKE : No complaint, Sir, of the nature alluded to by the hon. Member has reached the Foreign Office. After the Question of the hon. Member, however, Her Majesty's Government will consider it to be their duty to make inquiries upon the subject.
 MR. BOURKE : I learn, Sir, from the Colonial Office that there has been no Correspondence received from the Governor of Singapore which could usefully be communicated to the House. No Correspondence has passed with the Government of the Hague. No application for good offices having been received from either side, the question of mediation has not been entertained.
 COLONEL KINGSCOTE  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether his attention has been called to a serious outbreak of small-pox in the city of Gloucester, and where, owing to the total want of hospital accommodation there, persons infected with the disease are permitted to leave that city for the neighbouring towns and villages, thereby spreading infection; and, whether he will call upon the local authorities to take immediate steps to remedy the same?
 MR. LAING  said, he rose to support the Amendment of his right hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, because it would have been only fair and decent that the people of Scotland should have full opportunity of declaring their opinion on the important issues raised by the Bill. It raised a far larger question than that of patronage—the question indicated by the right hon. Member for Greenwich, whether, if they were to disturb the existing state of things by working a great and fundamental change in the constitution of the Church of Scotland, the time had not come when the whole arrangements of the Established Church ought to have a deliberate revision? The Lord Advocate said that that was a favourable period to consider the Bill. No doubt it was favourable, for the Body which was in the minority—namely, the Established Church. This measure was brought in by a surprise. The question of patronage was never raised, much less discussed, at the General Election. On the contrary, they were told that the people were weary of startling and sensational legislation, and that there was to be a period of repose. From the point of a surprise, therefore, the present was a favourable time for the Bill. It stood to reason that the United Presbyterian Synod and the other Bodies, committed as they were to oppose patronage should feel a difficulty in opposing the Bill, lest they should be thought to act like the dog in the manger, in saying that the Established Church should not now enjoy a freedom for which they themselves had sacrificed so much. But it was a larger measure. The question was, should the re-union of the three Presbyterian Bodies, which in doctrine, discipline, and all essential respects were upon a footing of perfect equality, be effected on the only possible basis of disestablishment, or whether it was to be
 1143 1144 1145 1146 1147
 MR. BAXTER  said, a great many Scotch Members wished to address the House, and they would willingly accept the offer of the Prime Minister, that the debate should be continued on Monday next.
 MR. BAXTER  in rising to move, as an Amendment—"That this House considers it inexpedient to legislate on
 1099 1100 1101 "As far as the Committee are aware, never once since 1843, never once during all the discussions of recent years, has a single Free Churchman, lay or clerical, thought of asserting that the abolition of patronage would remove the causes of separation." "that no Act intended to alter the law of patronage can have the effect of removing the ground of separation," and "protested against legislation professedly in the interest of Scotland generally, which proceeds on the application of the General Assembly of one body of Christians, without inquiring into the conditions, convictions, or wishes of the people generally," by the bill which "deals with the ecclesiastical condition of Scotland on insufficient information." 1102 en masse "We recently visited in succession no less than 40 parishes in the district north of the Caledonian Canal, and in not one of the Established churches did I find more than 30 persons of both sexes and of all ages, including tourists, attending public worship on Sunday, and in the majority of cases the audience did not exceed half-a-dozen." "Provided always, That if any communicants or other members of the congregation of a vacant church and parish, qualified in terms of this Act, shall apply to the presbytery of the bounds, and shall state that the number of communicants and other members of the congregation of such church and parish, qualified as aforesaid, is less than twenty-five, it shall be lawful for the said presbytery, if they see fit, to make an appointment tanquam jure devoluto on the expiration of three months after the vacancy has occurred." 1103 Regium Donum "I perceive by  The Scotsman 1104 1105 1106 "The Church of Scotland, I believe, on the whole, will he strengthened by the present Bill, though I see possible elements of evil in it. I would like the question dealt with with more deliberation and inquiry, and other questions dealt with at the same time."
 MR. C. DALRYMPLE  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had very wisely avoided referring to the subject of disestablishment; had he done so, his Amendment would have met with even less favour than it was likely to receive. The appeal which the right hon. Gentleman had made to English Members would not be very effective. There was no question in England as to the abolition of lay patronage, whereas in Scotland, it was almost a thing of centuries. Nothing could be more untrue than to allege that the question of lay patronage was bound up with the Established Church in Scotland; it was an alien part of the Establishment, which had patronage abolished before, and hoped to have it abolished again, as not consistent with its constitution. The right hon. Gentleman had explained that the vote of the United Presbyterians was not more hostile to the Bill, because they believed the measure would hasten disestablishment. But if that was so, why did they not vote in greater numbers? And with regard to the Glasgow town council, anybody who read their proceedings would know that that body was not actuated by any feelings of tenderness towards the Established Church, but thought the matter none of their business, and that it was for the Established Church itself to decide whether it would abolish lay patronage or not. He was very thankful to Her Majesty's Government for having dealt with the question that Session, though there were many circumstances which might have led them to adopt a different course, such as the shortness of the Session, the antiquity of the question, and the general abhorrence of Scotch questions, which was not peculiar to any Government. There were lions in the path, as it had been well said, not only to the slothful advocates of the motto, " quieta non movere 1108 1109 The North British Daily Mail 1110 1111 "All, I think, who have any real interest in the Church, or who are disposed to claim such an interest, should he recognized as entitled to a voice in the election of their parish minister, who is their pastor." 1112 1113
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, looking to the fact that it would seem to be impossible to carry the Inclosure Bill this year, he will consent to discharge the Order for the Second Reading of that measure?
 MR. BATES  wished to know the name and the net register tonnage of the vessel?
 MR. BATES  asked the honourable Member for Pembroke, If he can now give the name of the ship, with her net register tonnage, that was about to sail for China, whose uppermost deck was several inches amidships below the water?
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  congratulated the Government on having obtained the support of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone) had denied that Lord Aberdeen's Act had not worked satisfactorily. The right hon. Gentleman forgot the famous Queensferry case, which was a scandal and a disgrace to the Law of Scotland. That took place under Lord Aberdeen's Act, and there were other cases besides, from which there could be no doubt that it was the unsatisfactory working of that Act which induced the General Assembly to take up the question before the House. The right hon. Gentleman alluded to the fact; that the General Assembly had petitioned Parliament to give the election of the ministers to the communicants and the heritors. It was quite true that the General Assembly in the year 1860 appointed a committee, and in 1867 they were still undecided on the subject; but
 1139 the jus devolutum 1140 1141 1142
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  appealed to the Prime Minister to consent to the adjournment. It was his intention to support the Bill, and his wish to speak in favour of it, and so many Scotch Members wished to do so likewise, that he thought they should have the opportunity of doing so presented to them.
 THE CHANCELLOR THE EXCHEQUEE , in reply, said, that the instructions given to the Commission on the Civil Service did not embrace an inquiry into the operations of the Superannuation Act specifically; but it was possible they might touch on that subject in the course of their Report. As to whether alterations might not be advantageously made in the present terms of retirement, so as to facilitate retirement and cause a better flow of promotion, that was a large and serious question which he was not now prepared to take into consideration.
 MR. W. OAETWEIGHT  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he could state at what date the distribution may be expected of the Slave Trade Papers, Class A, which were laid formally upon the Table of the House as long ago as August last year, and the early distribution he promised on April 23rd?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : No steps, Sir, of any kind have been taken with respect to this subject by the War Department.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I am, Sir, unable from any knowledge or authoritative information which I myself possess, to inform the House whether there is reason to believe that the trial of one of the Stroud Election Petitions will have to be postponed until after the Assize Circuits are over, in order to enable Mr. Baron Bramwell to attend the Hertford Assizes. I have been informed by my hon. and learned Friend who has put the Question to me, that a statement to the effect of that involved in his first Question has appeared in the ordinary channels of information, but I have not myself seen it. As regards the second Question of my hon. and learned Friend, I am of opinion that, under the provisions of the Parliamentary Elections Act, 1868, a learned Judge upon the Rota is empowered to order an adjournment for a purpose in no way connected with, or arising out of the trial of the Election Petition. The terms of the Act do not appear to me to impose any restraint upon the exercise of his discretion. The words are—
 "The Judge presiding at the trial may adjourn the same from time to time, and from any one place to any other place within the county or borough, as to him may seem expedient." 1225
 MAJOR BEAUMONT  asked the Secretary of State for War, If he will be willing to defer the purchase of land for a tactical station in the North of England until the House has had an opportunity of discussing the question of a central arsenal?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the subject had undergone a good
 1226
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, its Preamble was concise, but expressive. It declared that it was expedient to make further provision for the simplification of the title to land, and for facilitating the transfer of land. Public attention had been for years directed to this subject. The importance and necessity of legislating with respect to it had been almost universally recognized—it had been inquired into by Royal Commissions and by Committees of both Houses of Parliament, and their Reports abounded in information of the most useful character; but their recommendations and suggestions had not as yet been adopted to an extent that had led to any substantial benefit to the public. Throughout the many years that this subject had been under consideration, the establishment of a land registry had been the prevailing idea that had influenced the various schemes that had been brought forward. Upwards of 200 years ago, in consequence of the then depreciation in the value of land, a Committee was appointed by the other House of Parliament for the purpose of investigating the general question of the tenure of land. That Committee made its Report in 1669, and stated that, in their opinion, the chief cause of the depreciation in the value of land was the uncertain state of the titles; and they recommended, as a measure of precaution, the adoption of a system of registration. And here he would request the House to bear in mind the distinction between the registration of titles and the registration of deeds and assurances. The latter system was that, for the adoption of which all the earlier proposals were made. An example of it was furnished
 1227 1228 1229 1230 1231 caveats 1232 primâ facie 1233
 MR. OSBORNE MOEGAN  expressed regret at being obliged to offer even a semblance of opposition to a Bill which had been revised by Vice Chancellor Hall and adopted by two of the most eminent of living lawyers. He confessed he entertained rather sceptical opinions on the subject of land registration. For the last 200 years the idea of a perfect land registry had been a sort of philosopher's stone after which English conveyancers and real property lawyers had been searching in vain. He remembered six Bills which were introduced for the purpose of establishing a land register, but of these only one survived its birth for more than a few weeks—namely, Lord Westbury's Land Transfer Act of 1862, which was now admitted on all hands to have proved a complete failure. The opinions of the Royal Commissioners were as varied as the number of the Royal Commissioners, and he was not asking too much when he asked them to pause before adopting a measure that bristled with so many difficulties. The present measure pro-
 1246 1247 caveats caveats 1248
 MR. STAVELEY HILL  remarked that they all seemed to be pretty well agreed with the Preamble of the Bill, and the only question they had to discuss was that which they were now discussing. If the people of England were to believe that this was the first time they had had an opportunity of having land conveyed to them at a very small expense they would be much mistaken. There was nothing new at all, for it had been possible to transfer land by the simplest words since and before the passing of the Statute of Frauds. Being at Oxford the other day he went to the Bodleian Library, and the very courteous librarian showed him a conveyance of the time of Henry I., conveying to the nuns of Littlemore to hold for ever on condition of their praying for the souls of himself, his father, mother, and blood relations. The conveyance was signed by five witnesses, and the whole was contained in three lines. Any measure that would facilitate the transfer of land, and would popularize the holding of land, would be a great benefit to the public. The present Bill aimed at giving a certified title and proprietorship. The register of proprietorship was a thing which they must look to. If we had. had that some time ago, our titles would have been in a very different condition from what they were in now. For facilitating the transfer of land and simplifying the title only two things were required—one was to register the proprietorship, and the other to endorse the register and the encumbrances. There was no necessity for anything further, so long as there was a strong compulsory clause which would give authority only to registered proprietorships. Did this Bill do that? He submitted that it did not. Reference had been made to eminent lawyers from whose hands the Bill had come, but when Vice Chancellor Hall was included among them it should be borne in mind that since he had considered the measure many strange alterations had been made in it; and the exemption of properties under £300 was an admission that its operation would be attended by great expense and delay. Much had been said about the care and accuracy with which it had
 1255
 COLONEL CORBETT  responded to the challenge which had been made to the landed proprietors to take part in the debate, and said he believed they always trusted to the honourable conduct of the solicitors of this country. He had not taken part in the debate because he did not profess to understand the subject as he was not a lawyer, and, for himself, the only pecuniary privilege he derived from sitting in the House was that by listening to a debate like this he could get a legal opinion without paying for it. He did not think landed proprietors had clamoured for this Bill, or cared much about it one way or another; but, for himself, he should be glad to see a recurrence to small deeds. He feared that in this country we should never see land transferred in a simple and cheap manner. Those who clamoured most for cheap land were probably those who had no land and did not care about it, and he doubted whether they would gain anything from the change. It was a mistake to say that there was no land for sale, because plenty of it was advertised for sale every day; and, indeed, he believed that the great difficulty in obtaining land consisted in finding the money to pay for it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in reply, remarked, that in moving that the Bill be read a second time, he had invited criticism, and that his invitation had been very largely responded to. Much, however, that had fallen from hon. Members was worthy of the careful cousideration of the Government, and should receive that consideration when the Bill got into Committee. He was desirous, however, of removing one misapprehension. Several hon. Members appeared to think that properties under £300 would be excluded from the operation of the Act. This was not so; they were only exempted from the compulsory provisions, and, so far as the advantages of registration were concerned, they would be quite available in the cases of those small properties.
 MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL  in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that the Rules framed under the Judicature Act of last Session had now, after long preparation, been considered finally by the whole body of the Judges, but they could not be promulgated until this Bill, which was merely
 1265 ex officio ex officio
 THE O'CONOR DON  rose simply to refer to the Landed Estates Courts in Ireland, in which the Judge who presided had the most important duties to perform as regarded landed property. That position ought to be held by a man of the greatest eminence, and ought not to be selected from men of an inferior position at the Bar, and be paid a lower salary than the other Irish Judges.
 MR. MACARTNEY , on behalf of the landed proprietors of Ireland, protested against the changes proposed by this Bill, and hoped the Government would re-consider the whole question.
 MR. ALFRED MARTEN  said, he thought the grounds of opposition to the Bill, as they had been stated, in the course of the discussion, resolved themselves very much into questions of detail, which could be dealt with more conveniently in Committee than on the second reading. The hon. Baronet the Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid) had cited against it the authority of the Lord Chancellor; but he believed that noble and learned Lord was of opinion that it was likely to be a most useful measure, although, speaking individually, the noble and learned Lord would prefer the establishment of some Court such as the Landed Estates Court in Ireland. The country, however, was not prepared, he (Mr. Marten) imagined, for the establishment of such a Court at a very great expense, or to throw upon landlords the burden of making out titles of an indefeasible character. If we were now originating a scheme, everybody would, he supposed, be inclined to adopt the principles in force with regard to stock in the public funds, or the hundreds of millions invested in railways; but we had to deal with an existing system, and the practical difficulties which had to be met required that a register should be established which by its gradual operation would bring land so within its scope that it might be dealt with in the same way as stock or ships. He did not hesitate, he might add, to express his confidence that if the Bill were to pass, that result might, with regard to the great bulk of land, be attained in the course of a few years. The hon. Member for Reading went on to urge it as an objection to the Bill that under the value of £300 there was to be exemption from the compulsory clauses; but there was a fallacy in arguing that, because small transactions—as in the cases of small incomes under the Income Tax Act—were made the subject of
 1244 1245
 MR. GODDARD  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether his Department have it in contemplation to abolish the present system of competitive examinations for the Army, and substituting in its stead some fixed standard of marks by which candidates may qualify themselves for direct Commissions?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have offered to send a delegate to the Congress at Brussels if we receive satisfactory assurances on various points which have been communicated to the Russian Government. With regard to the conditions to which I refer, and to which also the hon. and learned Gentleman refers, and other details, I think it would not be convenient at this moment, and that it would lead to misapprehension, if I were to enter into any explanation. The Papers will be laid almost immediately on the Table of the House, and will give full information on this subject. I shall be disappointed if they are not laid on the Table during the present week.
 SIR CHAELES ADDERLEY : Sir, the number of ships detained for overloading during the 11 months ended the 30th of June, 1874, was 22, every one of which was lightened to the surveyor's satisfaction. During the same 11 months 294 ships were detained for survey on account of defects in their hull
 1222
 MR. MELDON  said, it was the unanimous feeling of the Bar that one Judge was not sufficient for the work of the Landed Estates Court. He objected at the same time to the proposal to have only one Judge for the Court of Bankruptcy in Ireland instead of two as at present.
 MR. MONK  asked Mr. Attorney General, If he can inform the House whether there is any reason to believe that the trial of one of the Stroud Election Petitions will have to be postponed until after the Assize Circuits are over, in order to enable Mr. Baron Bramwell to attend the Hertford Assizes; and, if so, whether he is of opinion that under the provisions of "The Parliamentary Elections Act, 1868," a learned Judge upon the Rota is empowered to order an adjournment for a purpose in no way-connected with, or arising out of the trial of the Election Petition?
 MR. D. PLUNKET  said, he believed it was the unanimous opinion of the Judges, of the Bar, of attorneys and solicitors, and of the outside public in Ireland, that one Judge was not sufficient for the Landed Estates Court.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  regarded the Bill as a proposition to simplify the Law of Real Property, and one which, if carried out in all its details, would confer material benefit on landed proprietors. The registration of deeds was universal in Ireland, but was confined in England to the counties of York and Middlesex; but registration of titles was at present untried in this country. With
 1264
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that at that late hour they could not properly discuss the Bill, and he should therefore move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. JACKSON , in seconding the Amendment said, he thought the Bill had been properly described by the Prime Minister as one of first-rate importance. It was difficult to over-estimate the social advantages that would arise from a measure which would simplify and cheapen the means of acquiring land, especially in the interest of the humbler and the lower middle classes. Though he felt bound to oppose the Bill, he admitted that it contained a very great deal which was most excellent and desirable. The evil under which they laboured arose from the fact that the law of England, in the gradual evolution in land of those estates and interests which the growing wants of landowners and of the commercial community had made it necessary to create, had uniformly adhered to the principle of treating those interests as attached to and coming out of the land itself, and had never been satisfied only to look for protection to the persons in whom the land might be vested. It was absolutely unsafe for any person to enter into a contract to sell land without professional assistance—a state of things not creditable to our civilization. There had been persons who had made a living by buying estates at public auctions and then making such requisitions on the parties who sold them as induced the vendors to give money in order to get off the contract rather than comply with the legal necessities of carrying it out. The appropriate cure for the existing evil was that there should be found, or created if necessary, a person or persons who should have such an ownership as would enable
 1240 1241 1242 "The objections are so manifest that hardly any person in the present day would venture to propose it. Those objections are of this kind: To be worth anything a register of deeds must be made compulsory, and you must have it for the whole country …. Moreover the cost to the country of the establishment by which a registration of deeds could be managed would be something which, I should think, none of us would like to contemplate. I believe the calculation is, that for this country you must have the materials for registering a thousand deeds every day."—[3  Hansard "I am persuaded that a system which introduces itself without compulsion, by degrees, and just and only just in proportion as it is suited to the objects it professes to attain, is the system best adapted for the tastes, the prejudices, and wants of this country."—[ Ibid "He did not think that their Lordships would do well to impose as a matter of compulsion registration on landowners."—[3  Hansard
 SIR HENRY JAMES  noticed that throughout the whole course of the debate on the Bill no person save those who were Members of the legal profession ventured to express an opinion on the subject. He was certain that the House would have been pleased to hear the opinion of some hon. Gentleman who was not connected with the legal profession. Why was it that during the six hours the debate had lasted not one landed proprietor not connected with the legal profession had attempted to offer an opinion on the subject? It was not to be supposed that the landed proprietors who were Members of the House took no interest in the question of the transfer of land. Why, then, did they not display that interest by an expression of their views? He believed that the reason why they had not done so was that the details of the measure were so complicated that they could not master them fully, and that they could not, therefore, trust the mselves to take part in a preliminary discussion respecting it. The Bill, he believed, would sadly disappoint the hopes of many who anticipated that it would simplify the title and facilitate the transfer of land. While it ought to be read a second time, and while severe criticism at the present stage ought not to be applied to its details, it would disappoint those who expected much from it. He should offer no captious opposition to the Bill. It might be said that vested interests, in a professional point of view, would create a difficulty
 1259 1260
 MR. LAW  said, he thought the Bill would prove a substantial though not a very large reform of the law relating to real property, which at present imposed artificial and needless costs upon the owners of land. It had, indeed, been estimated that these costs were equivalent to a tax of 10 per cent on the value of their estates—a burthen which, of course, pressed most heavily on owners of small properties, and caused the land to be mainly held in large masses by rich men, whilst bankers and other dealers in money shrunk from making loans on landed property, owing to the state of the law, which impeded and delayed the realization of such securities. Now, without entering into the vexed question of small proprietorships of land, he should like to see all artificial restrictions removed and this and other cognate questions left to solve themselves. He objected in principle to needless obstructions, which answered no good purpose, and were a heavy tax on this species of property. If the transfer of land was very much cheapened, it might, perhaps, tend also towards the attainment of another object—namely, the better cultivation of the land in England. In 1871, Lord Derby, speaking at a public meeting, stated that the land of England did not produce one-half of what it might be made to produce if sufficient capital were invested in the soil, and an opinion to the same effect was subsequently expressed by Lord Leicester. That difficulty might, perhaps, be solved if tenant-farmers were enabled to buy
 1252 1253 1254
 MR. LAW , after observing that he was glad to find the language of the English Judicature Act had been scrupulously adhered to in this Bill, said, that if the Irish Law Officers of the late Government had had to deal with the subject, they would have begun by providing for the absorption of the Judges, and Courts of modern creation. They would have retained the 12 Common Law Judges as these would now be ultimately retained; but they would not have first removed two of them and left their places to be supplied after an uncertain interval by the outlying Judges.
 1268 ex officio ex officio
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the first question was, was this Bill called for? It appeared to him that some such measure was not only called for but needed. English conveyancing and the system as regarded purchases and the expense accompanying either the borrowing of money on mortgage or the selling an estate, was much the same as the system which obtained in Ireland prior to the establishment of the Encumbered Estates Court and the Landed Estates Court. Lawyers, thinking it was necessary to guard against every conceivable contingency, often investigated titles in such a way as to lead to great expense, and it was extremely desirable that the cost of these transactions should be lessened. This could only be done by means of the system adopted in the Irish Landed Estates Court under which deeds were prepared bearing absolute finality and indefeasibility of title upon the face of them, or certificates were granted declaring the existence of a good title and imparting equal indefeasibility and finality. The principal objection urged against the Bill had rested upon the compulsory clause; but he failed to see any valid ground for objecting to a clause which would only affect vendors and purchasers, would tend to greater security of title, and would, therefore, increase the value of landed property. Why should not the purchaser have a document which would give him absolute finality? Estates in Ireland sold with a Parliamentary title brought one or two years' more purchase than they would if sold with an ordinary title, and that was because there was finality in the transaction. He believed that the compulsory clause would really raise the value if the estate came to be re-sold,
 1251
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL), in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that it had precisely the same object as the English Bill on the same subject. It would be quite impossible to have the law different in England and Ireland. If was right that in England one tribunal should decide every portion of
 1266 1267 ex officio
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, with regard to the Return of Emoluments of Teachers granted on the 17th April, When the Irish portion of that Return will be laid upon the Table, and also what is the cause of the delay in its production?
 MR. SEEJEANT SIMON  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government have determined to send a representative to the Congress to be held at Brussels; if so, under what conditions, with reference to the subjects to be considered, and what will be his powers? If he was not out of Order, he would beg to ask whether
 1223
 MR. WHITWELL  could not concur in the wish that this measure should be postponed. It was the outcome of much thought and grave consideration; and although it might not be all that they desired, it was, at any rate, an attempt to deal with a very important question, and the community at large, having had the measure announced for many months, would be extremely disappointed if the House did not attempt to make it a useful one. Whatever alterations might be required in the Bill could be made in Committee. He joined in the regret expressed, that properties under £300 had been struck out of the Bill; but believing that the measure would be the beginning of a series of enactments which would afford the working man an opportunity of investing his savings with security at a fair rate of interest, he gave his support to the Motion that the Bill be read a second time.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he hoped the Government would not proceed with the second reading of the Bill, as it was one of a highly objectionable character.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  complained that a Bill of this importance should be discussed at that late hour of the morning. With respect to the Landed Estates Court, the Judge no doubt discharged his duties properly; but he found by a Return that no less than 1,732 cases were undisposed of in 1873, and 108 questions of abstract titles. That was a formidable arrear, and yet this Bill proposed to impose other duties upon him in addition.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that the usual requisition for the Irish portion of the Return was not sent out from the Home Office when the part of it was ordered relating to England and Scotland, and that this had delayed its production.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, by the Act 6 & 7  Vict Vict Vict Vict
 MR. BOURKE , in reply, said, that they would be laid on the Table next week. Their publication had been delayed to obtain verbal explanations of two or three Despatches from our Minister at Madrid relative to the slave trade at Cuba and Porto Rico.
 MR. PLIMSOLL  asked the President of the Board of Trade, What number of Vessels have been detained for survey-by the Board of Trade under the Act of 1873 up to 30th June last; and, if he will give the number for each month separately?
 MR. W. GORDON  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, "Whether the instructions to the Commission now sitting on the Civil Service embrace the subject of an inquiry into the operation of the present Superannuation Act; and, if not, whether he will take into consideration the question whether alterations may not be advantageously made in the present terms of retirement under that Act, so as to facilitate retirement and cause such a flow of promotion as is expedient to secure the efficiency and contentment of the Service, and enable juniors, long in the Service, to rise to salaries commensurate with their experience and responsibilities?
 MR. RATHBONE  said, he believed the question had a wider significance than the legal one, and that no measure would produce a greater effect in the direction of true conservatism and reform than a measure to simplify and cheapen the transfer of small properties, which would encourage thrift and independence among working men by encouraging them to become the proprietors of their own houses. This it would not be safe for many to do until it was cheap to buy, sell, and pawn houses, because the fluctuations of trade rendered it imprudent for them to invest their saving in a form which could not be easily real-
 1261
 MR. REDMOND  asked the Chief Seretary for Ireland, If he will be good enough to explain the annual payment from the Fines Fund (Ireland) of £500 to the Consolidated Fund, no charge being made upon the latter fund in connection with the imposing, levying, or auditing of fines in Ireland?
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he had desired too long an amendment of the system of land in this country, to offer any opposition to a Bill which professed to amend that system, which was in a state about as disgraceful as it was possible to conceive. It had been stated that night that the transfer of land added about 10 per cent to the price of land. If the country gentlemen would pay the same percentage to the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the form of succession duty, our Budget might be very much amended. Although the House was full of Gentlemen possessing property, there were few of them who know what title they had to it; and if they consulted any experienced conveyancer, he would tell them that most of them had no title at all. He said that for this reason—that at every auction of land there were conditions of sale of this character—the person selling made it a condition of sale that the purchaser should take a bad title—that was to say, a title less than a good one. He ventured to say that that was an absurd state for the land of a country like England to be placed in. He had always held the opinion that there would never be any real simplification in the system of the tranfer of land until they began by simplifying the tenure and title, and that the mere attempt to simplify registration was of no use. This Bill did not touch
 1262 1263
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  regretted that the Bill, which had been put forward as a chief measure of the Session, had been brought forward at so late a period of the Session, when it was most inconvenient for Irish Members to remain in London. The main feature of the Bill was the reduction of the number of Irish Judges. This he considered as an uncalled-for step, considering the magnitude and importance of the business they had to transact, and heespecially regretted that the reduction was
 1269
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID , being satisfied with the discussion which had taken place, said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  moved, as an Amendment—
 "That this House, whilst fully recognizing the importance of facilitating and cheapening the Transfer of Land, is of opinion that those objects would not he accomplished by the measure now proposed." 1234 "In every nation in Europe but this, land was now bought and sold with the utmost promptitude, cheapness, and simplicity," and that "the demand was, in fact, no longer that land should be 'as transferable as the Three per Cents,' but as it was now in every other country of Europe."—[3  Hansard "The principle of his measure was taken from the Shipping Law. There was no diff-
 1235 Hansard "If he went to the Bank of England for a transfer of stock, the stock was transferred and no questions were asked as to the trusts on which he might hold it. The only questions put were—Are you the owner of the stock, and do you want the transfer?' Why should the owners of land in this country not he able to get it transferred as the owner of personal estate could get that transferred? "—[ Ibid 1236 1237 1238 1239
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he had for a, long time been conversant with the transfer of land, and had looked into the Bill with the greatest care. The result, he regretted to have to add, was that he thought it would, as it stood, be practically unworkable; and more, that it would be hardly possible to put its provisions in a workable shape. Under the existing system the public had great security for the property which any one of
 1249 prima facie primâ facie 1250
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would not move that the Bill be read a second time this day three months on the understanding that an opportunity of discussing the measure would be given on going into Committee.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  was of opinion that a registration of title such as was contemplated by the Bill could not be carried out in this country; and that if it were possible, it would be, to a great extent, useless. Before a title could be registered it should be shown to be indefeasible, and in how many cases could that be the case considering the number of complicated interests and incumbrances which existed in respect of most landed estates? The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Law) had suggested that there should be a Judge appointed for the management of all landed estates in England, because the Encumbered Estates Court in Ireland had worked well. But the circumstances of the two countries were so different that if anything of the kind were attempted a strong cry would next be raised of Home Rule for England. In his opinion, this measure would not improve the position of either the purchaser or the vendor of real estate, because there would still have to be an investigation into the title even if it were registered, inasmuch as it rarely happened that a freeholder ever had complete control over his land, which was usually more or less encumbered. The best thing would be to have a registration of deeds as was the case in all other countries in Europe. Deeds might be printed in the register-book, and printed copies of them, duly stamped, might be given to the owners of the property. If a man had a good title he would be satisfied with it without going to the expense of registering it, and if he had a middling or a mere holding title he would not register it in order to give every one an opportunity of finding out blots in it fie further objected to maps being required to be made of each property that was to be registered; and, in conclusion, he advised Her Majesty's Government not to go on with this Bill, but to re-consider
 1256
 SIR JOHN KARSLAKE  said, he thought that the idea of the registration of deeds had been exploded more than 40 years ago. Our chief conveyancing difficulties arose from the nature of our real property tenure, and if we were to begin again, without doubt, we should adopt some system for the registration of titles, and not encumber ourselves with these complicated deeds which the hon. and learned Baronet opposite (Sir George Bowyer) proposed to perpetuate by having them printed on the register-book. The hon. and learned Baronet had urged as an objection against the registration of titles that some one might be tempted to pick holes in them; but surely the best way to induce persons to take such a course would be to register the deeds on which they depended. The expense of registering such deeds would be very heavy. The great vice of the present system was that they had deeds which recited former deeds, which again recited former deeds, which again recited former deeds; and he did not know if all the sheepskin which came into the market would be able to supply the parchment which would, in time, be required for the enormous recitals of these deeds. For many years efforts had been made to get some briefer mode of conveying property, and the tendency had been to recommend the registration of titles, and not the registration of deeds. In 1857 the present Lord Chancellor brought forward a Bill by which he proposed the registration of titles. In 1862 a Bill was introduced by the late Lord Westbury, and passed into law, under which a system of registration was created which proved to be an utter and complete failure. That failure arose from two causes; first, nothing but marketable titles could be registered; and secondly, that the man who wished to register his title was obliged to inform all his neighbours what he was about to do—to proclaim it in the market-place by a process of horning which prevailed in Scotland, and to challenge any of them to say that any of the property did not belong to him, thus exposing himself to a shower of lawsuits. The consequence was that no man in his senses went to the Registrar. What was proposed by this Bill? Pre-
 1257 1258
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  believed the hon. Gentleman was not quite correctly informed as to the object of the Bill. The question had been very carefully considered by the authorities of the Mint, and this Bill was approved by them. If it were read a second time he should move to have it referred to a Select Committee.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would not oppose the second reading of the Bill; but he was sorry he could not speak wholly in its favour, for he knew how earnest the hon. and learned Member for Salford (Mr. Charley) was in promoting measures of practical usefulness, which were generally intended to remove hardships under which the humbler classes of the community were suffering. The early portion of the Bill he (the Solicitor General) regarded as containing useful provisions, which might well receive the sanction of the House. It provided that anybody who wilfully and falsely pretended to have a qualification to act as a solicitor or attorney should be guilty of an offence, and subject to a penalty. It was, undoubtedly, right and proper that anybody who held himself out as qualified to do tilings he was not qualified to do, and who thereby deceived the unwary, should be subject to a penalty of some sort or other, and under the existing law he might be proceeded against if he falsely represented himself to be a qualified legal practitioner. If such a person escaped punishment under present circumstances, it was not because the law protected him, but because the machinery which had to be put in force with that view was cumbrous and difficult to work. With respect to that point, therefore, so far it appeared to him that the provisions of the Bill were useful and ought to be sanctioned, subject to some alteration of the language to which he need not then refer, but which could be made in Committee. But with regard to the 3rd clause of the Bill, it was one of which he could not approve. It seemed to him that if that clause were carried into law, it would
 1280 1281
 MR. MACARTNEY , as an Irish Member whose Church had been disestablished, was determined to oppose the introduction of the thin end of the wedge for the purpose of disestablishing the other two Churches in the United Kingdom. He did so, also, on the ground that the lands were held subject to the rate in question, and that it was no reason for relieving people from a tax, because they did not like to pay it. There was a stronger reason for maintaining the charge in Scotland, than there had been for upholding church rates in this country; because in Scotland, people all professed the same faith, and the members of the Free Church would not object to join in the services of the Established Church. If the Bill were to pass, those who in Ireland were paying a charge somewhat similar to the Commissioners of the Church Temporalities of Ireland would ask to be relieved from it, on the ground that what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander.
 THELORD ADVOCATE : I have no reason whatever to complain of the way in which the discussion on this subject has been conducted. The question is a
 1322
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he would certainly place himself in communication with the Secretary and Chairman of the Commission, and if it was possible that the Report could be in the hands of hon. Members before the end of the Session nothing would give him greater pleasure.
 MR. MONCKTON , who had given Notice of an Amendment on the second reading of this Bill, for its rejection, hoped it would not be supposed that there was any apathy in the House upon this subject. This was not a matter for class legislation, and no measure for the alteration of the criminal law without giving adequate protection to the workman engaged by an employer would give satisfaction. He therefore hoped no suspensory legislation on the subject would be introduced.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he could assure the House that, on his part there had been no delay in the matter. It was the very first question he had considered when the present Government was formed, and it was a subject with which he was well acquainted as Chairman of quarter sessions in a district where industry was carried on probably to as large an extent as in any other part of the Kingdom. The question had stirred very deeply the minds of those not only employed in labour, but of those employing labour, and both employers and employed were equally anxious that the question should be settled. He would remind the House, however, that they should not touch the question unless they had sufficient information at their command to enable them to come to a final settlement of it, and therefore he had advised the Government that a Royal Commission should be issued, and it was issued as mentioned in the Queen's Speech. At that time it was fully believed that the Commission would have reported in ample time to legislate on the question during the present Session. He had made inquiries, however, on the matter, and was told that that was not likely to be the case. But he was also told that there was not the least doubt that the Report would be in the hands of the Government early in the Recess, and the moment it was in their hands he would promise the House it would receive the most anxious consideration. In any case, the Report would be laid on the Table at the earliest moment next Session, and such a measure would be
 1325
 MR. KINNAIRD  expressed his disappointment that no legislation had
 1324
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that he had said nothing in answer to his (Mr. Mundella's) suggestion as to bringing in a suspensory law.
 MR. MUNDELLA , in moving, that the order for the Second Reading of the Bill be read and discharged, said, that at that late period of the Session, he could not hope to carry the measure, or even obtain a satisfactory discussion upon its principles. He would therefore withdraw it, in the hope that the Government, in accordance with the promise of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, endorsed by the Prime Minister, next Session would introduce a Bill dealing with the subject, seeing that the Royal Commission which had been appointed to consider the subject had not, as the Government had led the House to expect, reported in time to legislate on the question this Session. He also hoped the Home Secretary would give them an assurance that he would bring in a Suspensory Bill, dealing with that and the Master and Servant Act, for the matter was regarded with great interest by the working classes. He would conclude by moving the withdrawal of the Bill.
 MR. ORR-EWING  seconded the Amendment. After the able and eloquent speech of his hon. and gallant Friend, he had little more to say on the subject. He was sure that all who had listened to the speech must be convinced that no grievance now existed to justify the introduction of the Bill. His hon. and gallant Friend admitted that there might be a grievance with regard to the feuars in Scotland, so far as to justify an inquiry; but he did not admit that feuars had a right to be relieved, as the land belonged to them permanently, and they enjoyed the same position as freeholders in England. As to leaseholders, they were not subjected to taxation for either churches or manses. Indeed, the hon. Member who brought forward, the Bill admitted that the landowners of Scotland never asked or desired to be relieved from this taxation which had been imposed on them for centuries,
 1301 The Scotsman "The abolition of heritors' assessment in Scotland would he the relief of a certain species of property from a burden it has always borne, of an uncertain sum which the present proprietors of the property neither bought nor inherited. In other words it would be making a present to the landowners of a property or revenue which belonged to the State. In principle, it is the same as if in disendowing the Irish Church, the tithes had been given to the Irish landlords, instead of being applied to good uses by the State to which they belong." 1302
 COLONEL ALEXANDER , in moving as an Amendment—
 "That while not unwilling to consider any equitable proposal for relieving feus in Scotland below a fixed standard of annual value from assessment for the erection and maintenance of ecclesiastical buildings, this House is of opinion that, without further inquiry, to exempt the land generally from burdens incidental to its tenure would be neither wise nor expedient." 1288 plus 1289 "This Act shall not affect any enactment in any private or local Act of Parliament under the authority of which Church rates may he made or levied in lieu of or in consideration of the extinguishment or of the appropriation to any other purpose, of any tithes, customary payments, or other property or charge upon property, which tithes, payment, property, or charge previously to the passing of such Act, had been appropriated by law to ecclesiastical purposes, as defined by this Act, or in consideration of the abolition of tithes in any place, or upon any contract made, or for good and valuable consideration given, and every such enactment shall continue in force in the same manner as if the Act had not passed." "That from the time of the Reformation down to about 1690, the parichiners or parishioners were held liable for maintaining two, and the parson or titular of the teinds the third part or choir of the parish church, and in 1685, that is five years before the abolition of patronage, the Court of Session decided that the teinds might be devoted to the repair of the choir or parson's third of the church." 1290 "From the days of Alexander II. to 1563, the expense was laid on the parishioners, afterwards it came to he laid on the heritors. The expressions contained in the Act of Privy Council are consistent with this view, because it directs the stent (these words are very important) to be levied by way of a property not a capitation tax." "The execution of the repair operations required in a parish church, although not a burden which recurs at stated or regular periods, is one which is permanent as opposed to temporary in its nature. Assessment is imposed in respect of the ownership of heritable property which yields, or is capable of yielding a permanent revenue as opposed to a casual return or profit derived not from the fruits or produce of the subject, but from a disposal of part of the subject itself. And in 1805, it was ruled in the Inveresk Case that no part of the expense of rebuilding the church was assessable on an owner of coal mines qua; proprietor thereof, the profit being in the nature of casual profit, rather than permanent rent." "The heritor cannot dispose of his seat (in church) separately from his lands. It is annexed to and cannot be dissevered from them." 1291 1292 "It is quite clear that every feuar is liable to assessment in one shape or other, and whether a feu is worth £500 per annum to the feuar, or only £5, the feuar is equally a heritor, and every heritor must be assessed," 1293 1294 s s s d The Scotsman The Orcadian 1295 1296 1297 1298 1299 1300
 COLONEL ALEXANDER  said, he would, with the leave of the House, also withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. M'LAREN , in reply, said, it had been argued that English church rates were voluntary. They might be voluntary in one sense, but they were not in another. For instance—if there were 200 people assembled at a meeting for laying on a church rate, and 101 voted in favour of the rate, and 99 against it, that could not be a voluntary rate as regarded the 99. He did not doubt the law which had been laid down by his opponent; but he denied that it was either equitable or just, and he believed that its operation was productive of more harm than good to the interests of the Church of Scotland. Everyone who had travelled in Scotland must have noticed that the great majority of the churches were more like barns than places of worship—so little money was laid out
 1323
 MR. M'LAREN , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, it was the same as a measure which, in 1871, passed by 121 to 76. The Government promised to deal with the subject in the following Session, and also in the succeeding one; but, owing to the pressure of business, that was not done. In the present Session 132 Petitions had been presented in favour of the Bill, many of them being from town councils and other corporate bodies; one being from the Convention of Royal Burghs; one from the General Assembly of the Free Church, and one from the Synod of the United Presbyterian Church. In that way the House would see there had been a general expression of opinion in favour of the Bill. There had been Petitions against it; but nearly all of them had come from Courts of the Established Church. He had good reason to believe—and the absence of Petitions corroborated his opinion—that the members of the Established Church, other than the Church Courts, would be delighted to see some measure passed to remove the grievances which existed. There was one Petition of rather an important kind, from the landowners of the county of Aberdeen, as Commissioners of Supply, in favour of the Bill, and the question, he might state, was growing rapidly in Scotland. Now, it was only necessary to explain the principle of the Bill, and he did so, merely for the information of hon. Members who might not have been in the last Parliament, and who might not have given attention to it. By the law of Scotland, as it then stood, every Church which required repairs had to be repaired at the expense of all the landowners of the parish, and if a church was so dilapidated that a new one was considered necessary, a rate was laid on for its erection. Again, if the minister's house, which they called the manse, required repairs, a rate had also to be laid on for that purpose. Unlike the clergy in England, the Scotch minister was not bound, except in special cases, to keep the house in tenantable condition; and
 1283 verbatim 1284 "With the object which my hon. Friend (Mr. M'Laren) has in view, I hope I have expressed my entire sympathy, and also my resolution on the first opportunity which may he afforded me of attempting to deal with it by a measure introduced into this House." "By taking the course, however, of offering no opposition to the second reading, I hope L shall give some additional emphasis to the regret I sincerely feel at my inability to attempt myself to deal with the subject in the course of the present Session."—[3  Hansard "There was some grievance as regarded a portion of the assessment, and he concurred in the view which had been thrown out in course of the discussion that there would be considerable relief in a more equal distribution of the liability. At present, the assessment occurred at uncertain intervals, and if it were converted into a small fixed amount, benefit would result to all parties."—[ Ibid "His hon. Friend (Mr. M'Laren) alluded to a large area in Scotland—one-third of the whole—where, he said, 'a caricature of the Church exists.' he (Mr. Ellice) feared he must concede the justice of that expression."—[ Ibid 1285 "Still he had some sympathy with the hon. Member (Mr. M'Laren), who had, at least, proposed to remedy a grievance—but he had not a word to say for Her Majesty's Government, whose policy seemed to be on this as on other occasions—' We cannot pass a measure ourselves, and we are resolved nobody else shall.'"—[ Ibid 1286 "This House is of opinion that, without further inquiry, to exempt the land generally from burdens incidental to its tenure would be neither wise nor expedient." 1287
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that judging by a paper which he had received that morning, it might be supposed that that was a great party question. If it was intended to be made a great party question, then hon. Members on the other side must for once consent to receive him as a convert, because on that occasion he disagreed entirely with the hon. Member for Edinburgh. He altogether agreed with the Amendment so ably
 1319
 MR. J. W. BARCLAY  desired to express, on behalf of a large and influential section of his constituents, their acknowledgment to the hon. Member for Edinburgh for his long continued efforts to bring this question to a settlement. His constituents were pecuniarily interested in the question, and he was in a position to say that the levying of the tax had created great dissatisfaction and discontent among the feuars. He wished to refer particularly to one of the cases which had been brought before the House by the hon. Member for Edinburgh. In the town of Aberdeen, with which he (Mr. Barclay) was connected, the levying of the tax had caused much heart-burning. He had no desire to express any special interest in the welfare of the Church of Scotland, since such expressions seemed to be offensive to hon. Members opposite, who appeared to think that it was their special duty to guard the Church; but he was entitled to say, that clergy-
 1310 1311
 MR. DODSON  thought that there would be great disappointment throughout the country when it was found that no action would be taken in the matter that year, as it had been understood that this Session would not be lost, and that some legislation would take place. He would earnestly appeal to the right hon. Gentleman to use his influence, and endeavour, if possible, that the Report should be in the hands of hon. Members before the end of the Session so that they might have the opportunity of considering it during the Recess.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, they had listened to what had been characterized as a short account of church rates in Scotland, and of the history of the church rates as they formerly existed in England, and they had had the exposition of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who submitted the Amendment confirmed by the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire, to satisfy the House that the church rates levied in England prior to 1868, were different in their incidence, and the pur-
 1303 1304 "Legal writers and judicial authorities generally agree in referring it to the period when the intervention of the inhabitants in assessing the rate first becomes apparent in our judicial records, the earliest of which is contained in the 'Year-Book' of the 44th year of Edward the Third's reign (1369–70), and refers to a custom in a parish which would carry the practice back to the reign of Richard the First—that is, to the year 1189." "The rate being thus of considerable antiquity, and raised under the common law, modified merely in some particulars by statute, and being also for the most part within the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts, the law with regard to it is perhaps neither so strictly defined, nor so readily ascertained as the legal provisions applicable to other rates." "The principal purposes of the rate are of two kinds, and may he classed according as they relate to the fabric, or to the service of the Church. Under the common law, the rate is intended to keep in repair the body of the church, the belfry, and all public or common chapels within or adjoining to the church. The chancel is usually repaired by the parson, but sometimes by the parishioners." Geo Geo Geo 1305 "Under the common law also, the rate is to furnish all those things which are required directly or indirectly in the service of the church—a communion table, and the bread and wine, 8 font of stone, a reading desk and pulpit, a Bible and Prayer-Book, a Book of Homilies, the Ten Commandments, and other chosen sentences on the walls: and a chest for alms." "The burden of repairing the church, originally the duty of the Bishop—and by the Canon Law imposed upon the rector or other recipient of the tithe and other ecclesiastical revenue of the parish, was, so far as that part of the church is concerned, which was appropriated to the use of the people, cast in very early times on the parishioners, while the part of the church appropriated to the priest—the chancel—was generally left to be repaired by the parson, though this also is sometimes by custom transferred to the parishioners. The rate is, as to most of its purposes, and entirely as to its present mode of imposition on property and persons, founded on immemorial customs. Whatever may be the abusive application of this rate in practice, legally it still remains applicable only to purposes strictly connected with the fabric and service of the Church." 1306 1307 s d 1308
 MR. M'LAGAN  said, he had on former occasions, when that Bill was before Parliament, voted for it, with the reservation that he did not wish to relieve the
 1321
 MR. LAING  said, he would not have troubled the House if it had not been for the representations which had been made by the hon. and gallant Member for South Ayrshire in regard to the position of Orkney in reference to the question. He could assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman that in Orkney the operation of the Church rate caused a great amount of hardship and exasperation, and yet he asserted with confidence that there was not a single county in Her Majesty's Dominions which approached, or at all came up to it, in educational standard or attainments. As regarded the speech of the hon. and gallant Member, and several other speeches which had been made, they had one great fault—namely, that they were made on the wrong side of Westminster Hall. Had the Speaker been sitting in  Banco Nisi Prius 1312 1313
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, that the Bill was one in the interest of the public, and as such it must be looked at; for if it were merely in the interest of the legal profession, it would not be acceptable to the House. While saying that the Bill might in some respects go too far, he yet thought its various clauses admitted of a clear defence, and their details could be dealt with in Committee. He was surprised to hear a Law Officer of the Crown object to the 3rd clause, for it only embodied a principle that was contained in earlier statutes, and which was substantially now the law of the land, as the 60th section of the 33 & 34  Vict
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, that he should vote for the Bill, and begged to thank the hon. Member for Edinburgh for having brought forward a measure, the object of which was to give freedom where it was at present wanting—to those who did not belong to the Church of Scotland. He recognized the great services which that Church had performed in times past for the good of the country at large, particularly in the matter of education; and as to the dissensions which had broken it up and impaired its usefulness, he acknowledged that they were due, not to the action of the Church itself, but to measures passed by an arbitrary Government. But they must now take the various Presbyterian Bodies as they found them, and it was high time to put an end to the existing strifes by giving relief where it was needed. With regard to the matter now under discussion, the pecuniary interests involved were so insignificant, that he believed the difficulty would be settled by a voluntary arrangement of the Church of Scotland itself, if only it had an opportunity afforded to free those who had separated from the Established Church, from the legal necessity of contributing to support a Church to which they no longer belonged. As to teinds, about which the hon. and gallant Member for South Ayrshire had had a great deal to say, and had said it well, it would, no doubt, soon become necessary to inquire into the nature of their origin. It seemed to him (Sir George Balfour) that their original object had been to maintain the Church, to promote education, and to assist the poor, and that they had been intended to benefit the people of Scotland at large. The manner in which they had latterly been appropriated was, however, not at all in accordance with the original purpose. Instead of being used for the public advantage, the teinds had unfortunately been taken possession of by landed proprietors and men in powerful positions, and used by them for their private purposes. The least he hoped for or expected, was an assurance from the Government that they would make an effort to arrive at an amicable solution of the question.
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had confined his remarks to a comparison of the law of this country with that of Scotland in regard to Church rates. He had listened with attention to the quotations given by the hon. Member, but he had failed to hear in one of them anything to induce him to believe that Church rates in England were not a voluntary assessment. Supposing that a Church rate had been refused, was there anything previous to 1868 to compel the parishioners to repair the parish church? He believed, in regard to the fabric of the church, that there were no means of compelling the parishioners to do the necessary repairs, unless they were willing to do so. Perhaps some other hon. Member would show the House how the case really stood. His own impression was, that when repairs were required, the incumbent called a meeting of the parishioners, and if they were willing to impose a rate by a majority, then an assessment was made; but if they were unwilling, then the fabric of the church must be allowed to remain in a state of dilapidation. That, however, was not the case in Scotland, for if a church was permitted to fall into a bad state of repair, it was competent for the Sheriff to make an order for the necessary repair to be made. He did not know in whom the ownership of the parish church rested in England; but in Scotland it rested with the heritors, and there was an obligation cast upon different classes of property to repair the building. The heritors could not escape from that burden. It was part and parcel of their obligations, and was always a matter of consideration when arrangements were made for the purchase of land. Every intending purchaser made it a special point to ascertain what the obligations upon the land were, and in many cases it formed a ground for investing in property that the church and manse had been recently repaired he certainly did not understand why, by passing the Bill, a present of the sums
 1309
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that before he heard the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for South Ayrshire, he had asked himself the question, whether the Amendment was meant to be hostile to the Bill of the hon. Member for Edinburgh, seeing that it admitted to a certain extent, that there was a grievance, and expressed a willingness to inquire into it. But after the speech which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had made, he thought there could be no doubt that the Amendment
 1314 1315 Mandamus 1316 1317
 MR. CHARLEY , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said: This may be regarded as a very unpretending measure of social and, at the same time, of legal reform; of social reform because it protects the public against unqualified persons assuming to act as legal practitioners; of legal reform, because it supplements the inadequate provisions of the existing law for checking the raids of legal quacks on the legal profession. On what principle, I would ask, is the medical quack restrained from preying upon the public and upon the medical profession, while the legal quack is allowed without any restraint at all to prey upon the public and the legal profession? The first portion of the 2nd clause of the Bill assimilates the law for the conviction of unqualified legal practitioners to the law which has now been for 16 years in salutary operation for the conviction of medical quacks; and the latter portion of the clause provides a simple means of enforcing in a mitigated form the existing law for the protection of the public against unqualified legal practitioners. The 3rd clause of the Bill provides a simple remedy for enforcing, in a mitigated form, the existing law for the protection of the public and the legal profession against unqualified and unskilled conveyancers; and the last clause—which, I may observe, is not essential to the Bill, but which, I think, is a useful clause—has for its object the protection of persons in distressed circumstances from being induced to enter into bills of sale, enabling money-lenders to break into their premises and carry off their furniture, without their fully understanding the force and effect of those dangerous documents. It may be asked—"Why does not the Council of the Incorporated Law Society proceed against those persons? The Council of the Incorporated Law Society offer their justification in their Report for the year 1871–2 in these terms—
 1272 "It does not seem to he generally understood that, unless it can he proved that proceedings have actually been taken by unqualified persons in some Court, the Society has no power to interfere under the Attorneys and Solicitors Acts." "Every person who acts as an attorney or solicitor contrary to the enactment in sect. 2 of the first hereinbefore mentioned Act," "No person shall act as an attorney or solicitor, or as such attorney or solicitor sue out any writ or process, or commence, carry on, solicit, or defend, any action, suit, or other proceeding." "Shall he deemed guilty of a contempt of the Court in which the action, suit, cause, matter, or proceeding in which he so acts is brought, had, or taken, and may be punished accordingly." 1273 The Law Journal "This debt-collecting establishment issues various notices. No. 1 is a request for payment in full, or by instalment; otherwise action. No. 2 is an 'arrear' notice for payment of an overdue instalment, under throat of immediate steps being taken to recover the entire debt. No. 3 is headed 'final notice, collecting department,' and threatens that unless the debt is immediately paid it will be passed over into the legal department. Last comes the notice, headed 'legal department,' which intimates that on a day named the necessary steps will be taken for obtaining a warrant of execution against the goods and chattels of the debtor; and failing that a warrant of imprisonment for contempt of Court." "Perhaps the most peculiar feature in this class of business," says  The Law Journal "It having become evident from your silence that extreme measures will be required to recover the debt against you at these offices, we have to intimate that on Tuesday next (unless a settlement be previously sent here), the necessary steps will proceed towards obtaining a warrant of execution against your goods and chattels, which failing, a warrant of imprisonment for contempt of Court will be applied for, the expense of all which will fall on you to pay. We are, your obedient servants, &c, —Accountants." 1274 "Action by the plaintiff to recover the balance of moneys received by the defendants on his behalf. The defendants carried on business as 'legal agents throughout the Kingdom,' being styled 'The Mercantile Accountancy Offices,' their receipts and certificates bearing the Royal and City Arms. Someone called on plaintiff and induced him to become a member at 25 s The Law Times
 SIR WILLIAM CUNINGHAME  said, he should hardly have ventured to take any part in the debate but for the picture which had been drawn by the hon. Member for the Orkneys (Mr. Laing) of the small proprietors in the parish of Arran, who, he said, might be compelled to pay an assessment for the repair or building of a church which might amount to a half, or even a larger part of the annual value of their property. But it should be remembered that at the time these properties were acquired by them, either by purchase or by succession, they were fully aware that the charge was borne by the property, and he could not himself see that there was anything unjust in calling upon them to discharge an obligation into which they entered when they became possessed of their property. With regard to the Bill, there was one point connected with it which afforded cause for satisfaction, and he had hardly expected that the hon. Member for Edin-
 1318
 SIR WILLIAM EDMONSTONE  said, that the Bill of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. M'Laren) was another stone thrown at the Church of Scotland, and he believed if it were to pass, that many manses and churches in Scotland would fall into disrepair. He opposed the Bill entirely on principle, and he called upon the Friends of the Church of England, as well as the Friends of the Church of Scotland, to resist the Motion.
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER  asked Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether he intends this Session to bring forward a measure to remove certain hardships suffered under the Civil Bill (Ireland) Act, by which Act persons sued to the Petty Sessions Court for a small sum, say five shillings, if the case is settled before trial, have to pay as much stamp duty as if they had been sued in the same Court for a largo sum, say forty pounds?
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER  asked Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, If his attention has been called to the Memorial of John M'Crea in respect to the Sessional Crown Solicitor for Tyrone; and, whether that person is continued in that office?
 MR. FORTESCUE HARRISON  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he has received the Report of the Naval Court of Inquiry which sat at Valparaiso on the loss of the British steamer "Tacna;" and, if so, whether he will lay it upon the Table of the House?
 LORD HENEY LENNOX , in reply, said, that his attention had been called to the question of providing accommodation in the New Courts of Justice for the Final Court of Appeal; and he hoped his hon. Friend would not deem him discourteous if he refrained at present from entering into any detailed answer on that subject.
 SIR JAMES HOGG : In answer, Sir, to the Question of my hon. Friend, I beg to state that no steps are proposed to be taken by the Metropolitan Board of Works with regard to Eastcheap. The Board do not agree with my hon. Friend with regard to the increase of traffic which he anticipates in that thoroughfare. On the contrary, they consider that the new street, 60 feet wide from Gracechurch Street to Fenchurch Street, and the proposed railway, when completed, will tend much to relieve the block in that neighbourhood.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, it was true that the names of the two gentlemen who had just been appointed magistrates for the borough of Ryde had been interpolated on the roll of the Commission of the Peace before the names of existing justices, but it was not true that this had been done contrary to usage. From inquiries which he had made at the Crown Office he found that it was the invariable custom that gentlemen whose names were placed on the Commission of the Peace were placed on the roll according to their rank; and the two gentlemen who had just been appointed, having the precedence, had been put on the roll in the order of their precedence, and nothing more.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that there was at present no intention to alter the rule with respect to conferring such privileges as those to which his hon. Friend referred, nor did he think such an alteration would have a tendency to increase promotion, as he seemed to suppose. The matter could, however, be considered.
 MR. SACKVILLE  asked Mr. Attorney-General for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the evidence given in the Court of Queens's Bench in Dublin in the recent trial of Callan  v
 MR. BRUCE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the question of Superannuation in the Police Force; and, whether he is prepared to introduce any measure on the subject?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that his attention had been directed to the subject, and that he was of opinion the whole question with respect to a superannuation fund in the police force was one which required immediate consideration. He hoped to be able to lay a measure dealing with it early next Session on the Table of the House.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said: My attention, Sir, has been called to this matter by the Question of my hon. Friend, and from all inquiries I have hitherto been able to make I have every reason to believe that the account referred to, and which appeared in  The Daily Telegraph
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, considering the thorny character of those paths which we are now invited to tread, I think,
 1373 1374 1375 The Times 1376 1377 1378 1379 1380 1381 primâ facie 1382 1383 1384 "In the performance of the services, rites, and ceremonies ordered by the Prayer Book, the directions contained in it must he strictly observed. No omissions and no additions can be permitted." 1385 1386 1387 1388 1389 1390 1391 "1. That in proceeding to consider the provisions of the Bill for the Regulation of Public Worship, this House cannot do otherwise than take into view the lapse of more than two centuries since the enactment of the present Rubrics of the Common Prayer Book of the Church of England; the multitude of particulars embraced in the conduct of Divine Service under their provisions; the doubts occasionally attaching to their interpretation, and the number of points they are thought to leave undecided; the diversities of local custom which under these circumstances have long prevailed; and the unreasonableness of proscribing all varieties of opinion and usage among the many thousands of congregations of the Church distributed throughout the land. "2. That this House is therefore reluctant to place in the hands of every single Bishop, on the motion of one or of three persons howsoever defined, greatly increased facilities towards procuring an absolute ruling of many points hitherto left open and reasonably allowing of diversity; and thereby towards the establishment of an inflexible rule of uniformity throughout the land, to the prejudice, in matters indifferent, of the liberty now practically existing. "3. That the House willingly acknowledges the great and exemplary devotion of the Clergy in general to their sacred calling, but is not on that account the loss disposed to guard against the indiscretion, or thirst for power, or other fault of individuals. "4. That the House is therefore willing to lend its best assistance to any measure recommended by adequate authority, with a view to provide more effectual securities against any neglect of or departure from strict law which may give evidence of a design to alter, without the consent of the nation, the spirit or substance of the Established Religion. 1392 "5. That, in the opinion of the House, it is also to be desired that the Members of the Church, having a legitimate interest in her services, should receive ample protection against precipitate and arbitrary changes of established custom by the sole will of the clergyman and against the wishes locally prevalent among them; and that such protection does not appear to be afforded by the provisions of the Bill now before the House." "6. That the House attaches a high value to the concurrence of Her Majesty's Government with the Ecclesiastical authorities in the initiative of legislation affecting the Established Church."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the vigorous and eloquent speech they had just heard from his hon. and learned Friend had been directed to many points connected with Church and State, but had been little directed to the Bill before the House. ["Oh!" and  cheers 1424 1425 1426 1427 1428 1429 ad hoc ad hoc 1430 The Times 1431
 MR. HUBBARD  (London)  denied the statements of the hon. and learned Member (Sir William Harcourt), to the effect that the Crown and Parliament made the Church of England, its doctrines, and its discipline. No clergyman who knew the meaning of his profession, and no Churchman who had road the history of his country, could admit such a statement for a moment. This Bill was suffering for the sins of its birth; but it was something more than a mere machine to expedite and render more easy and economical legal processes in clerical suits. He desired to see the Church strengthened by greater uniformity of action, for while he would allow as much liberty as possible to every man, yet a certain amount of uniformity must be observed to give strength to the ecclesiastical system of the Church. It was, however, impossible that a measure of this importance affecting the Church could be carried without the concurrence of the great body of English clergy who were concerned. He had heard a good deal said about clergymen receiving the pay of the State and yet disobeying the law; but it was due to the clergy to remember that they spent at least twice as much as they received, as the consideration of their official duties. The concurrence of the clergy could not be given heartily and willingly, except the measure had at least the concurrence of Convocation, which by law and by custom was the representative of the Church of England. But this measure was one in which the Government ought to take the lead; and in this Session the position of public affairs rendered it impossible for
 1438
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  suggested that this Bill should take the place of the Land Transfer and Titles Bill, which could not possibly pass this Session.
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is true that the names of the two gentlemen just appointed magistrates for the borough of Ryde have, contrary to usage, been interpolated on the roll of the Commission of the Peace before the names of the existing justices; and, if this has been so done, if he would state why?
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, If he will state how many Officers have qualified, or are now qualifying, for navigating duties under the Admiralty Circular of August 1873; whether it is his intention to take any further steps for encouraging Officers to avail themselves of that scheme, and for enlarging the scope of those proposals; and, whether it is his intention to offer any plan of retirement or amalgamation to Staff Commanders and Navigating Lieutenants in view of the gradual abolition of a separate grade of Officers for navigating duties?
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  asked the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether it is intended that the employment of the students in the Art Schools shall be permanently discontinued in the decoration of the unfinished parts of the South Kensington Museum?
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, it would be impossible for me to mention within the limits of an Answer all the measures affecting the Government of India which have been introduced into Parliament by Secretaries of State without official consultation with their Council; but I will mention the three latest and most important—namely, an Act in 1869 to amend in certain respects the Act for the better Government of India, another Act of the same year to define the powers of the Governor General of India in Council, and lastly, an Act in 1870 to make better provision for making laws and regulations in certain parts of India. The India Councils Bill will stand the Second Order of the Day on Monday next, but will not be proceeded with after 9 o'clock.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON  said: Sir, I rise on a point of Order. The
 1443
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he thought the Government had not acted fairly towards those hon. Members who wished to speak. He should support the proposal for adjournment.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he thought the proposals of the Government most reasonable, but, at the same time, he trusted the fact that this debate excited great interest, and that there were many Gentlemen desirous to speak could not be
 1439
 MR. PELL  concurred in the remarks of the last speaker, and would join with
 1440
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  put it to the House whether on a question of such importance the debate should not be adjourned. They had had two nights, and with justice, to debate Home Rule; and the Scotch Patronage Bill, after a night's debate, was adjourned to Monday next; and yet on a question so deeply affecting the Church of England they were to have but one night.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  rose to address the House when—
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  wished to know whether he might now continue his speech.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : Let me begin by assuring the hon. and learned Member for the City of Oxford (Sir William Harcourt) that, throughout my speech, I shall certainly avoid following his example by entering into the early history of the reformed Church of England. I would merely point out to him that his argument was based on a fallacy when he quoted the Preface to the Prayer Book, referring to the various uses of the unreformed Church. What were those uses? Different forms of words. But the question now is, not of different forms of words, but the different methods of employing that one form of words in the performance of Divine Service which our Prayer Book contains. I can well understand that he could not quite take in nor sympathize with the view of the work of the Church of England as it was eloquently described by the right hon. Member for Greenwich. The late Prime Minister had somehow the weakness to consider that the Church of England was a spiritual body, and to look upon its liturgies and forms of worship as something that had
 1444 1445 corpus vile 1446 1447 1448 1449 1450 "Public Worship Regulation Act.—To the Right Rev. Father in God, A.B.—We, C, D, and E, all three parishioners of your Lordship's diocese, do hereby represent that F. G., incumbent, &c." 1451 1452 1453 locus pœnitentiœ 1454 1455 1456 1457
 MR. HALL , in rising to move the Amendment of which he had given Notice, thanked the right hon. and learned Gentleman tire Recorder for the kindly manner in which he had dealt with a very difficult subject. With regard to the Bill itself the longer it had survived the less like its original self it had become. The reason of this was not to be found in any regard for the party in the Church against whom the Bill was first directed, but in the good old-fashioned English feeling that repression to be of avail must be based upon distinct law, and also upon equity, justice, and common sense. This feeling accounted for the abandonment of the clause which would have allowed a man to be judged  pendente lite 1365 1366 1367 "That it is inexpedient to proceed further with a measure for amending the administration of the Law in regard to the offences against the Rubrics of the Book of Common Prayer while that Law is in an uncertain condition."
 MR. NAGHTEN  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether he is prepared to recommend with a view to increased promotion, that Officers of Her Majesty's Army on retirement, if Captains, after fifteen years', or, if Field Officers, after twenty years' service on full pay, should be entitled to a step of honorary rank, with the privilege of wearing their uniforms?
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, with regard to the first part of the Question, the hon. Member assumed that there had been a violation of Article XIX of the Treaty of Union. He must observe that the Judicature Act Amendment Bill did not propose that Scotch cases should be reviewed by the Court of Chancery, the Court of Queen's Bench, the Court of Common Pleas, or any other Court in Westminster Hall, but by an Imperial Court of Appeal sanctioned by Parliament, and constituted in a manner
 1353
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that what had fallen from him had been, he was sure unintentionally, misrepresented by the right hon. Member for Bradford. He had not stated that on Monday he would intimate the course which the Government would take with respect to that Bill, although if it came on again, of course, the Government would not shrink from expressing their opinion on the measure. What he had said was that on Monday he would communicate to the House the course they would recommend as to pursuing that debate, after minutely examining the matter with due regard to the convenience of the House and the progress of Public Business generally.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought that after the division they had had, they ought to be willing to go on with the discussion. Nobody could reasonably object at this late period of the Session to sit on such an occasion as this till 4 in the morning. Any unwillingness to do so was simply owing to the effeminate habits which came over some people at this season of the year. He hoped they would continue the debate two or three hours longer, if necessary, and take a division. Considering the state of public business, he would on Monday communicate to the House what prospects he could offer them as to how that business might be carried on; but to his mind the discussion of this Bill ought to be proceeded with at once.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, one solution of the difficulty had occurred to him, and every solution should be indulgently accepted at this period of the Session. He thought they could resume the debate on Wednesday.
 MR. DISRAELI : Motions for the adjournment of debates at this period of the Session are very responsible proceedings. I am aware that there is great interest felt on both sides of the House in reference to this measure; but I should not be doing my duty to the House if I held out to them any certain prospect of this debate being resumed. It is necessary that I should place this clearly before the House, so that the House may consider whether it is not possible, by continuing the debate to a late hour, or rather to a very early one, to come to some decision on the matter. I should be glad if this proposal were accepted; but I have sufficient experience to know that the chance of its being accepted is not considerable. But I will say this to the House in the present state of affairs—this is a Bill of very great interest and importance, but it is to be deplored that it should have been sent down to the House of Commons so late in the Session. I will consider the state of Public Business again, and, if possible, more anxiously and more minutely than I have already done; and on Monday I will state to the House the results which I have arrived at and the counsels on the subject which I should recommend them to adopt. If that is agreeable to the House, I will consent at once to an adjournment till Monday, and I shall then be prepared to give my advice.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY , in reply, said, that he had received the Report in question, and that it would be laid on the Table.
 MR. CAWLEY  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any space has been reserved, or provision made, in the New Law Courts for the Court of Final Appeal; and, what arrangement is proposed to be adopted for supplying such Court, and where?
 MR. MONK  also rose on a point of Order, and complained that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the London University (Mr. Lowe) had been in the House just before the division, and had been talking to the Speaker while the division was going on, but had not recorded his vote. He (Mr. Monk) had mentioned the circumstance to both the Tellers, and he wished to know whether it was a proper course for any Member to adopt.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Members who were thus delaying the Business did not understand the feeling of the House or the country. The real question was whether or not the Bill was to be smothered. In insisting upon deciding this question the House was in reality affirming its com-
 1442
 MR. M'LAREN  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether his attention has been called to those parts of "The Supreme Court of Judicature Act (1873) Amendment Bill" now before this House, by which judicial decisions in Scotland may be appealed to a new Court to be constituted in Westminster, called "Her Majesty's Imperial Court of Appeal," in violation of Article XIX of the International Treaty negotiated between the two independent Kingdoms of England and Scotland, and afterwards ratified by the Sovereign and the Parliament of both Kingdoms, as follows:—
 "That no causes in Scotland be cognosable by the Courts of Chancery, Queen's Bench, Common Pleas, or any other Court in Westminster Hall; and that the said Courts or any other of the like nature, after the union, shall have no power to cognose, review, or alter the acts or sentences of the judicatories within Scotland, or stop the execution of the same;"
 MR. GREENE  said, he was not willing to let that matter pass with an uncertain promise of another day for continuing the discussion. That was not a subject merely of to-day, nor one about which there was only a cuckoo cry, as had been said by the hon. Member for Oxford. He and those who thought with him did not wish to persecute those who differed from them; but as long as they had a National Church they wanted to know what were its opinions and whether they could belong to it or not. He would call for a division unless they had a distinct promise that a day would be set apart for resuming the debate.
 MR. HORSMAN  felt sure that the House would be content with an assurance that an opportunity would be afforded for arriving at a decision on the main question. If the right hon. Gentleman would give that assurance the House would no doubt assent to the Motion for adjournment.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he thought that as there had been a most important speech delivered that evening by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, who had probably placed the Bill before the eyes of a great many people in an entirely new light and shown how little its real
 1441
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that he felt rather in the position of standing as godfather to his own child. He bore testimony to the tone and temper with which the Recorder of London had moved the second reading; and in seconding the Amendment, expressed the pain with which he had heard expressions disrespectful to the most rev. Prelates by whom that Bill was introduced used by some opponents of the measure. If he opposed the Bill himself, it was only from an imperative sense of duty, for he was sure that none were more anxious for the welfare of the Church than those most rev. Prelates. He hold with the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last, that the law should be made clear and definite before persons were asked to obey it. But he had suggested a more general Amendment, inasmuch as many who agreed with that view might not found it upon the special reason, that the revision of rubrics had been referred to Convocation. With regard to the revision of the rubrics by Convocation, there were some who thought Convocation was not a proper
 1368 1369 1370 1371 1372
 MR. LEATHAM : Perhaps, Sir, it may excite surprise that anyone who desires to see the separation of Church and State should hesitate to support a measure which, if some of the ablest representatives of High Church and Low Church opinion are to be believed, has a direct and inevitable tendency to precipitate that event. But, Sir, I am not one of those who are anxious to arrive at an end, however desirable in itself, by crooked means; and therefore in discussing this Bill I must begin by eliminating from my regard any consideration of its probable consequences in that direction. Now, what is the scope and object of this Bill? In the words of its promoters, it is to afford a cheap and ready means of repressing that freedom of practice and ritual which is characterized as rebellion and insurrection by those whom it offends. But, Sir, when we are dealing with matters of conscience, I have a wholesome distrust of cheap and speedy processes, and I distrust them utterly when they are based upon no higher or more definite principle than that "something must be done." And do not let it be supposed that those of us who take this view have any lurking sympathy for the practices against which this measure is avowedly designed. On the contrary, so far as I feel myself competent to enter upon such controversies—for life appears to me to be really too short for theology, such as it has become—my judgment and my prejudices are all the other way; but what I have, I hope, a warm sympathy for, is common justice, and it is because this Bill appears to me to be in flagrant violation of this, that I venture to ask the House to reject it. For what, Sir, are the fatal admissions of those who plead for the Bill? A right rev. Prelate is represented to have said in "another place"—
 "I frankly admit there is something anomalous and even, perhaps, dangerous, in cheapening and sharpening the processes of ecclesiastical
 1432 Hansard "To enforce the rubrics on everyone equally all round is an impossibility, and the Bishop would be simply mad if he tried to do it."—[ Ibid 1433 "It must he borne in mind, too, that in dealing with the rubrics you are dealing with a code of laws which not only is not, but cannot be observed." "The fact is, you cannot sharpen your law so as to make the whole of this obsolete code observed, and in trying to do so you will strike High Church, Low Church, and Broad Church alike."—[ Ibid 1434 "Poor wretch! the mother that him bare, If she had been in presence there, In his wan face and sunburnt hair, She had not known her child." 1435 "It was necessary to prevent a clergyman appearing in his great coat, which would be as great an offence against the common sense of the parishioners as putting on no ornaments at all."—[3  Hansard "which will remain, is formally to point out to the contending parties the practices in respect to which they are expected by a Bishop to make war upon one another." 1436 veto "So absolutely, directly, and cordially Papist, that it is all that £1,500 a-year can do to keep them from confessing it? " 1437
 MR. PEMBERTON  moved that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. PEMBERTON  said, he did not feel justified in pressing his Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. HUNT : Sir, the Circular referred to by the hon. Gentleman provides for the appointment in the first instance of five lieutenants under four years' standing, and 20 sub-lieutenants to navigating duties. One lieutenant has qualified, four lieutenants are qualifying; 11 sub-lieutenants have qualified, and nine sub-lieutenants are qualifying, making up the total numbers fixed. The system being only just commenced there is no immediate intention to extend the scope of it. With regard to the last Question, I have to say that representations have been made to me on the part of the navigating officers with reference to their position which I am anxious to
 1347
 MR. FAWCETT  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether any measures, and if so what measures, affecting the Government of India have been introduced into Parliament by Secretaries of State for India, without having previously consulted their Council;
 1348
 MR. CHILDERS  supported the appeal of the right hon. Gentleman. He had moved the adjournment, not from any selfish feeling, but at the urgent request of many hon. Members of both sides of the House. The division, however, distinctly conveyed the opinion of the vast majority that the debate should close that evening.
 MR. CHILDERS  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. HOLT  said: Mr. Speaker, the House is aware that some weeks ago I obtained leave to bring in a Bill, the object of which is somewhat similar to that now under consideration. My Bill has been postponed from time to time, in the expectation that we should be called on to consider the measure now before us; and under the conviction that the House, knowing the origin of the present measure, would very properly be disposed to give it precedence. I am aware that it would be out of Order to discuss the details of my Ecclesiastical Offences Bill at this time; but I may be permitted to say that it is not to be regarded as a rival, but as an alternative scheme. Though I think the mode of procedure which I am prepared to recommend to the House avoids some of the difficulties inseparable from this measure, and some of the objections raised against it, yet when I see the form it has assumed on its arrival in this House, I am prepared to give it my cordial support. I am not wedded to my own Bill; but I am ready to do what lies in my power to aid, in its passage through this House, any Bill which will effect the object I have in view, that is—which will contribute towards the maintenance in unimpaired vigour in this country of those primitive, scriptural, truly Catholic, and therefore Protestant
 1396 1397 sine die 1398 locus standi 1399 "There can be no doubt that the danger you apprehend of a considerable minority both of clergy and laity amongst us desiring to subvert the principles of the Reformation, is real." Union Review "The work going on in England is an earnest and carefully organized attempt, on the part of a rapidly increasing body of priests and laymen; to bring the Church and country up to the full standard of Catholic faith and practice." The Church Times "We are contending, as our adversaries know full well, for the extirpation of Protestant opinions and practices, not merely within the Church itself, but throughout all England." Church and the World "The whole purpose of the great revival has been to eliminate the dreary Protestantism of the Hanoverian period and restore the glory of Catholic worship. Our churches are restored after the mediæval pattern, and our Ritual must accord with the Catholic standard." Four Cardinal Virtues "Consider how much has to be done ere we substitute our Conquest over Protestantism, or still more ere we re-Catholicize the Church of England.… We have to make confession the ordinary custom of the masses.… We have to restore the religious life, to say mass daily, and to practise reservation for the sick." "Our object and desire is to restore the Church of England, in her beauty and in her Ritual, to what she was before the Reformation." 1400
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , in reply, said, he had not seen the Memorial, but he was acquainted with the circumstances connected with the person referred to, who had been sent to prison under an attachment of the Court of Chancery for not executing a deed. A process of that character was not within the dominion of the interference of the Executive Government or of any person whatever except the Judges of the Court of Chancery.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , in reply, said, that it was not proposed that the Bill should in any way interfere with the position of the office of Lord Chancellor in Ireland as it at present existed.
 THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , in reply, said, his attention had not been called in any official way to the subject mentioned in the Question, nor was he aware that it was the intention of the Government to issue such a Commission as that referred to. Indeed, he did not know that it was
 1352
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , in reply, said, it was not his intention to introduce any measure dealing with that matter.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, he thought he was entitled to be heard on a subject which so vitally interested him.
 MR. VANCE  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is intended to bring in a Supplemental Estimate to provide for the payment of the extra salaries of the clerks of the peace, in pursuance of the provisions of the Irish Land Act of 1870?
 MR. DODDS  said, he had intended to give his vote for the ayes, and if he had voted with the noes it was unintentionally.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was rather surprised that the right hon. and learned Gentleman who moved the second reading of this Bill had not dwelt more on the abuses which the measure proposed to remedy. He fully agreed with his right hon. and learned Friend in condemning the abuses which had been referred to; but he thought more might have been said with regard to some of the prevailing practices—practices that seemed to him to be not only subversive of the Protestantism they all professed, but which tended to sap the independence of free thought throughout the country. They had been told in "another place" that these practices amounted to nothing short of mutinous conduct and treason against the Church, and dishonesty as between man and man. Such charges were not made by members of the Liberation Society, but by the highest dignitaries of the Church of England, and nobody doubted but that they were substantially correct. The Archbishops and Bishops had brought forward the Bill with great reluctance, and too tardily; and if they had required more charges to justify them there were plenty at hand, for they had adduced only illustrative and not isolated eases. Any hon. Member could satisfy himself of the truth of the charges by visiting the churches within two miles of that House on Sunday next. He should be glad to see these abuses remedied, but he was
 1405 1406
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, assumed that the Question of the hon. Member referred to the draft charter agreed on by the governing body of Trinity College, Dublin, and which was
 1349
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, if he will state why the draft of the Queen's Letter empowering certain changes in the constitution of the governing body of Trinity College, and assented to on the 6th June by the Senate, has not been laid upon the Table of the House; and, whether, considering the lateness of the Session, the assent of the Government will be suspended until next Session, so as to give an opportunity of discussing this important question in Parliament?
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  asked Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether it is intended, under the twelfth Clause of the Irish Judicature Bill, that the office of Lord Chancellor in Ireland shall be made a permanent office held during good behaviour, like the other superior judgeships?
 MR. MUNTZ  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the statements in the public prints relative to the proposed Treaty between the Dominion of Canada and the United States of America were so far correct, that Canadian-built vessels were to be entitled to the advantages of the coasting
 1351
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the statement in question is not correct, inasmuch as it assumes that the proposal contained in the draft Treaty referred to was to open the coasting trade generally, whereas the provisions in question apply only to the inland waters lying between Canada and the United States, and not to the coasting trade on the seaboard.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, confessed that he did so with considerable anxiety, not on account of any supposed difficulty either in the principles or details of the measure, but because he could not profess to be ignorant of the amount of angry feeling which had been excited by this measure among many persons for whom he entertained very high respect. At the same time he thought that that feeling was due rather to what had been imagined to be in the Bill than to what was really to be found in it. He trusted that he should be able to show, when he compared the present law with that which the Bill proposed to introduce, that there were no grounds for complaint either on the part of the public or the clergy; for while the Bill would be found to materially facilitate the administration of the law with regard to ecclesiastical offences, it would secure most thoroughly the fair rights of the clergy themselves. His great anxiety, however, was lest he should say or do anything in the slightest degree to intensify the feelings that at present existed upon the subject. It would be necessary for him, in the first instance, to make clear to the House what was the law now in existence. As the House was aware, England was divided into two provinces—those of Canterbury and York. For those provinces there were separate Courts and Judges, and in each province there were a number of Consistory Courts, in which ecclesiastical matters were more or less dealt with. The Dean of Arches was the Judge of the
 1356 1357 1358 1359 1360 "That it is inexpedient to proceed further with a measure for amending the administration of the Law in regard to offences against the Rubrics of the Book of Common Prayer while the revision of such Rubrics has, by the advice of Her Majesty's Government, been remitted to the Houses of Convocation of Canterbury and York." 1361 "That it is inexpedient to proceed further with a measure which does not deal in a comprehensive manner with the Law relating to prosecutions of Clerks in Holy Orders for offences against the Laws Ecclesiastical." 1362 "That the proposed appointment of a new Judge for the decision of one branch of ecclesiastical offences is inexpedient, and involves unnecessary charge upon funds already devoted by Parliament to the relief of spiritual destitution in populous places." 1363 1364
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  admitted that he had made a mistake in this, though, of course, he was not aware of it at the time.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he hoped the House would not adjourn the debate, at any rate for the present, but would continue it for some little time, so as to shorten the proceedings on the next occasion.
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that a Supplementary Estimate for the purpose would be laid on the Table before the end of the Session.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought it was clear, from the feeling of the House and the intense interest taken in regard to that Bill, that it was impossible to settle the matter that night. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, though lamenting that fact, concurred in that opinion himself, and promised on Monday to state the course which the Government intended to take with respect to that Bill—information which would certainly be received with very great gratitude by the House. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would feel the importance of giving them an early day for resuming that debate.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  denied that the question was one of smothering the Bill. The Government had given up a night to the discussion of this subject, and the question really was, whether, that being so, they would so arrange the conduct of Public Business as to afford an opportunity of bringing the debate to a legitimate termination?
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he belonged to no party in the Church, neither high, broad, nor low. He was simply a sincere and devoted member of the Church of England, and if he thought this Bill had the slightest tyrannical or persecuting tendency he would be the first to oppose it. The course he was about to take that night would, he was fully aware, give pain and offence to many whose good opinion he had hitherto enjoyed. He was willing to believe that the High Church clergy had acted according to their consciences in introducing the practices they had done; and he had received letters from various quarters threatening him with the loss of his seat if he voted for the Bill. He would only say that these threats would have no effect whatever upon the vote which he should give. If he thought the Bill was in the least degree intolerant—if it created a new ecclesiastical offence—he would give it his most strenuous opposition. But to
 1393 1394
 MR. W. GORDON , as the Representative of a large and important metropolitan constituency (Chelsea), said, he concurred with the views expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. Forsyth). He believed the Bill was one which would tend to advance religion and benefit the people, and he should be deterred by no threats from giving it his support. Did he imagine for a moment that it would lead to persecution, he should be the last man in the world to say a word in its defence. He regarded it, however, as being nothing more than a measure for simplifying procedure and diminishing expense. Indeed, there was not, so far as he could see, one single clause in the Bill which did not place the clergy in a better position than that in which they now stood, for, under the Church Discipline Act of 1840, the same machinery as that which it was now proposed to establish might be set at work at the instance of any individual whatsoever, or even by a stranger to the parish; whereas, under the provisions of the Bill under discussion, action could be taken only on the motion of three parishioners—a number which, perhaps, it would be desirable considerably to increase. It was true, as had been observed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, that the measure had undergone great changes in its passage through the other House; but then it had left that House with the sanction of the highest clerical and legal authority, and surely it deserved, under these circumstances, the greatest respect at the hands of the House of Commons. The right hon. Gentleman had described the Bill before the House as a measure calculated to control the liberty of the congregation. In his opinion, it would not; but it would enable the congrega-
 1395
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that although he had arrived at the conclusion that he ought to support the second reading of the Bill, he had not done so without considerable hesitation and reluctance.
 1401 1402 1403 1404
 MR. W. M. TORRENS  was somewhat surprised at the suggestion of the last speaker. Asking the House to adjourn in order that the speech of one of its Members might be considered by the country, seemed trifling with their own responsibility. As the matter stood at present there was no escape from the House deciding "aye" or "no" on the principle of the Bill, and he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister would best consult the dignity of the House, by appointing an early opportunity, if it could not be done that night, for ascertaining the opinion of hon. Members on the Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  pointed out that Wednesday would be a most undesirable day to proceed with the discussion, as a fluent orator like the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) might talk until 6 o'clock, and thus prevent the House from coming to a decision.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he was very happy to hear from the Treasury Bench that this was a subject on which everyone was at liberty to express his individual opinion. They who sat on a Bench which was not a Treasury Bench could not, therefore, be taunted, however good humouredly, with difference of opinion, inasmuch as no Act of Uniformity had been passed applicable to those Benches. It was a consoling thought that on the Bench opposite, as well as upon the Bench behind him, there was no particular rubric to which they were obliged to conform. They had heard the opinions of one right hon. Gentleman representing the University of Oxford (Mr. Mowbray), and he had no doubt before this debate closed they should hear the opinions of the other Representative of that University, who filled so distinguished a place in Her Majesty's Government. That right hon. Gentleman would probably address the House before they finally heard from the First Minister of the Crown his opinion on the Bill, which they all must deplore was not a Bill under the conduct of the Government
 1415 "And whereas heretofore there hath been great diversity in saying and singing in churches within this realm, some following Salisbury use, some Hereford use, and some the use of Bangor, some of York, and some of Lincoln; now, from henceforth all the whole realm shall have but one use." 1416 1417 1418 1419 Church History? "Now, the true reason why the King could not intrust the diffusive body of Convocation with power to meddle in matters of religion was a just jealousy which he had of the ill-intention of the major part thereof, who under the fair rind of Protestant profession hid the rotten core of Romish superstition. It was, therefore, conceived safer for the King to rely on the ability and fidelity of some selected confidants cordial to the cause of religion than to adventure the same to be discussed and decided by a suspicious Convocation." "That the authority of handling and defining concerning the things belonging to the faith, sacraments, and discipline of ecclesiastics hath ever belonged and ought to belong only to the pastors of the Church whom the Holy Ghost for this purpose hath set in the Church and not to laymen." 1420 The Times 1421 1422 "How therefore any part of the substance of the Church or the discipline and rights of the clergy can be affected by the proposed legislation is not to me intelligible, unless it is contended that the clergy have a vested interest in the continuance of technical and formal impediments to the execution of the law of the Church." "A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn " 1423
 SIR CHARLES LEGARD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been drawn to the account in "The Daily Telegraph" of July 6th of a fight between a Dwarf and a bull-dog, which took place at Hanley; and, if he intends to take any steps in the matter?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the points of Order had been disposed of, and the hon. Member was consequently in possession of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : Did the hon. Member give his voice for the noes?
 SIR HENRY PEEK  asked the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works, in regard to the new street to be formed between Gracechurch Street and Fenchurch Street, in connection with the completion of the Inner Circle of the Metropolitan Railway, What stops, if any, are proposed to be taken to prevent the inconvenience certain to be caused by the increase of traffic in Eastcheap, which as the main thoroughfare westward from the London and Saint Katharine Docks, the Royal Mint, the Tower of London, and the Trinity House, is already overcrowded, and will be the reverse of relieved by the proposed new street?
 MR. MOWBRAY : But the whole argument of the right hon. and learned Gentleman followed from this statement, because this was the precedent from which he argued. It was a delusion to suppose that the fees which would be paid in the proposed new Court would amount to the salary proposed to be paid to the new Judge. The average of the fees received annually in the Court of Arches during the last seven years was only £7. It was to be hoped that the measure would be delayed, at all events, till public opinion on the subject was more matured. Instead of producing order and harmony, it would, in his opinion, cause disunion and disruption.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, considering this was a Bill affecting the Church, it brought together some strange companionships, as that he, for instance, should go into the Lobby with the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), and against his right hon. and learned Friend the Recorder. He thought that the best course to take would be to postpone the Bill, not indefinitely, nor for so long a period as would please the right hon.
 1407 1408 1409 1410
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that this was a question on which everyone must take leave to form his own opinion, even at the risk, as his right hon. Friend (Mr. Mowbray) had said, of finding himself in the Lobby in unusual company. He wished, therefore, to explain in a few words his reasons for giving a hearty support to this Bill. He did so not as belonging to any party in the Church. He had no sympathy with either extreme; he had the greatest dislike to the very terms "high" and "low" Church; and while he stood aloof, though for different reasons, from the Movers of each Amendment, he would be glad to enlarge the basis of the National Church to the greatest extent compatible with the preservation of order and defined doctrine. This was a question of degree. But it was because there seemed to him to be no adequate guarantee for the maintenance of either doctrine or order, nothing to save them from being at the
 1411 1412 1413 1414
 COLONEL MAKINS  moved the adjournment of the debate. It was a most important question, and one affecting the interests of great numbers of people in the country, and it would not be doing them justice to go on with it at that late hour.
 VISCOUNT SANDON : Sir, there is no money at present available for the decoration of buildings at South Kensington.
 1354
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the two Reports of Mr. Justice Grove upon the subject of the trial of the recent Election Petition for the borough of Boston are set forth in the Votes of this House of the 8th and 23rd of last month. It appears from the former of such Reports that Mr. Justice Grove, having decided that one of the respondents was not duly elected, reserved two questions for the consideration of the Court of Common Pleas—one of such questions had reference to the validity of certain votes, and affected the claim of the petitioner to be returned in the place of the unseated respondent; the other of such questions had reference to agency, and affected the election and return of the other respondent. It would appear from the second Report of Mr. Justice Grove that the former only of these questions had been disposed of by the Court of Common Pleas at the date of such Report, as it only deals with the seat claimed by the petitioner; and that the other of the questions submitted to them by Mr. Justice Grove had not then been dealt with by them. I have, however, every reason to believe that not only are the Judges fully alive to the state of the case, but that the parties more particularly interested have at present under their consideration how the remaining question can be brought before the Court for decision.
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether it be true that, contrary to the Regulations of 1796 and the General Orders of the Government of India of 1824, regulating the retirement and pensions of the officers of the late East India Company, and the Acts of Parliament guaranteeing these rights to pension, any Major of the late Bengal, Bombay, or Madras Artillery, has been placed on a retired pension of 14 s d s
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that all the appointments had been suspended until the Regulations with respect to the status and pay of Militia medical officers were issued. Those Regulations were now in preparation, and would shortly be issued. He had the opportunity the other day of seeing a deputation of those officers, and gave them the same information as he now gave to his hon. Friend. As to the question of compensation, he could only repeat what he had said before, that, as in former eases, so also in these, each case would be considered carefully on its own merits.
 MR. HUBBARD  (London)  said, that in estimating the probable future Revenue of the country, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proceeded upon an estimate not absolutely accurate, but as accurate as it could be made; and upon that circumstance the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) had foundered himself, in the gloomy view of the financial state of the country which he had taken. Now that view, so far as the application of public money to the reduction of the National Debt was concerned, had been answered beforehand by the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but if the hon. Member had looked to a printed paper headed "Sinking Fund," he would find reason rather for gratification than the reverse. That table showed them how the reduction of the National Debt had been dealt with for centuries past, and it appeared from it that, during the last few years especially, the Debt had been reduced by some £2,000,000, £3,000,000, and £4,000,000 at a time. In the face of such facts, it became a matter of comparative unimportance whether the estimate of the Revenue was a few hundred thousands of pounds in excess, or in diminution. The question was simply, whether the Government balance at the Bank of England might be a balance within a few hundred thousand pounds of the estimated amount of the Revenue. There was, therefore, no ground whatever for the position which had been taken up on this question against the Government, and it was a question upon which the hon. Member for Hackney had been wholly misinformed. The hon. Gentleman further said that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, having received £500,000 in repayment of advances made by the Public Works Loans Commissioners, he had applied it in part discharge of national obligations, without taking notice of the source from which the amount came. Nothing could be more distant from the fact. He could tell the hon. Member that £350,000 of that £500,000 passed through his hands, and that that sum represented the interest on advances made by the Public Works Loans Commissioners. These accounts were carefully analyzed, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had properly applied the money coming into his hands to the most legitimate purpose—the
 1493
 MR. HUBBARD  contended that the borrowing powers under private Bills were very different from those under the Public Loan Commissioners Act. He suggested that the limit should be placed at 50 years.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, when the Secretary of State for India sanctioned more liberal leave rules for certain officers of the Uncovenanted Service, he required that lists should be prepared by the Government of India of those officers to whom those rules should apply, and that such lists should be transmitted for the Secretary of State's approval. A list was, accordingly, transmitted by the Government of India in relation to officers in Oude. In regard to Bengal, a list has been received with
 1476
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, Majors of the late Indian Artillery have retired on a pension of 14 s d 1474 s d
 MR. PELL  moved the addition of a clause, confining operations, in regard to overcrowding, to cases where there was more than one family in a house.
 COLONEL LEARMONTH  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 38, after "parish," to insert the words "or council of a borough." His object was to enable the town council in a borough to have a power, similar to that exercised
 1496
 MR. CAWLEY  thought there were ample powers existing at the present time to enable local boards to obtain waterworks. He considered that great mischief would be done by the adoption of these words, because the local boards might involve the ratepayers, in considerable expense. It would be a perfect delusion, however, to suppose that the Amendment would enable any sanitary authority to get a sufficient supply without coming to Parliament for compulsory powers.
 MR. CAWLEY  moved as an Amendment, in page 15, line 1, after "milk," to omit the words "butter, cheese, and eggs." Many kinds of cheese were not good till they began to decay; and, for his own part, he confessed that unsound cheese was the only kind of cheese which agreed with him.
 MR. MONK , who had a Notice on the Paper relating to First Fruits and Tenths, said, he rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which was of very considerable interest to the clergy.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished, in the absence of the First Lord of the Treasury, to put a Question to some other
 1477
 MR. E. J. REED  wished it to be clearly understood that, though the rate of wages paid to the working classes had considerably decreased of late, the decrease followed upon a large and abnormal rise in the wage rate from which the country suffered enormously. He thought it was undesirable that the House should be supposed in any way to under-rate that decrease.
 MR. E. J. REED  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, with reference to the recent grounding of Her Majesty's ships "Narcissus" and "Endymion" in the Bay of Palermo and to the court martial upon the captain and navigating officer of the flagship "Narcissus," and upon the captain of the "Endymion," whether the precedent of the "Agincourt" case will be followed, or whether the Admiral in command is held free from responsibility?
 MR. GREGORY  said, the clause was unnecessary, because at present there was ample power to obtain a supply of
 1498
 MR. HUNT : Sir, the precedent to which the hon. Member refers has not been followed; but instructions were issued from the Admiralty that the conduct of the Admiral in reference to the occurrence in question should be investigated by court-martial, and the court-martial is now sitting at Devonport.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  hoped his hon. and learned Friend would he satisfied with the discussion, and not press his Motion. He (Mr. Sclater-Booth) could not consent to the adoption of the addition; but if the hon. and learned Gentleman would allow it to stand over, he would consider whether the wording of the clause could be improved so as to meet the case, and would state the result when the Report was brought up.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , as at present advised, thought that the powers which already existed, together with that clause, would enable sanitary authorities to go out of their districts to obtain a supply of water in the manner indicated by the hon. and gallant Baronet.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that none of these powers could be exercised, except after inquiry and due notice to the parties interested.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  hoped that the hon. and gallant Member would not press his Amendment. It would open the door to a multiplication of officers, which the Government thought inexpedient. If the Amendment were carried, it would enable every town council and board of guardians to have an extra clerk for sanitary work.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in moving that Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair, said, the Bill contained no debatable matter of principle. Hon. Members who took an interest in the debates on the subject in 1872 would not be surprised to find that after the lapse of two years some changes and altera-
 1494 mandamus 1495
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  was perfectly ready to consider the Amendment, if his hon. Friend would introduce it on the Report.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he could not possibly agree to the clause.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, perhaps the best thing to do would be to reconsider the clause, and if any ambiguity should be found in it he would engage that a new clause should be drawn upon the Report.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  observed, that although it was proposed by the clause to extend the period to 60 years, there would be many persons and many wealthy corporations disappointed because it did not go further. He thought, however, it might be regarded as a fair settlement of the case.
 MR. WHALLEY  thought the clause was of the highest importance. The hon. and learned Mover of the clause had no wish to interfere with the rights of the existing water companies, but merely to afford facilities, in the interests of the public, for a supply of abundant and good water.
 MR. WHALLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, with reference to the policy adopted with a view to the suppression of the Slave Trade on the East Coast of Africa, Whether he is aware that the transportation of slaves is openly carried on, under the Egyptian flag, from the Egyptian port of Massowah, and from Zeybu and Tajoura, of which Turkey has lately assumed the Protectorate, apparently for facilitating such traffic?
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he should not have interposed in this discussion did he not feel, from the speeches which they had heard from the two front Benches, that there had been carefully left out of sight one important aspect in which this question might be viewed. This, perhaps, was not altogether unnatural, if they considered what had happened to the finances of the country during the present year. It seemed to him that every day it was becoming more evident that a most serious injury was done to the financial position of the country by the popular financial bids for electoral support which were made by each great party at the last General Election. He knew nothing, however, more creditable to the country than the fact that it did not respond to the financial inducements held out to it—a circumstance which pointed to the improbability of the experiment being tried again. He did not censure the Chancellor of the Exchequer for what had been done, because he was placed in the position of being compelled to do something in order to redeem the promises made by his Chief in his Election Addresses before the last General Election. Two months before the end of the financial year, the then Prime Minister had predicted a surplus between £5,000,000 and £6,000,000, and promised remissions of taxation, which, if they had been carried out, would have required a surplus of £8,000,000 or £9,000,000. How was the deficiency between the promised remissions of taxation and the surplus which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich had assumed to exist to be made up? Why, it was to be made up by the re-adjustment of taxes—
 1490 1491 d
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the right hon. Gentleman had misrepresented what he had said on the subject. What he said was, that comparing this year with last, the increase on the quarter might be held to be the measure of the increase for the year.
 MR. CHILDERS  in rising to call attention to the state of the Revenue, and to ask a question of Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, said, that on a former occasion, about the middle of May, he asked his right hon. Friend whether, from the facts known at that time, the state of the Revenue might be considered by him satisfactory; and his right hon. Friend, in reply, stated that with respect to the Customs the state of things was satisfactory, that respecting the Revenue generally, and especially the Excise, there was no reason to apprehend there would be any great difference from the statement which had been laid before the House; but that towards the end of the Session he should be prepared to give further information on the subject. A quarter of the financial year having expired, he now proposed to repeat the question in the light of that quarter's experience. The facts as to the Revenue appeared to be that on the quarter the Customs showed a decrease of £287,000. The Excise gave an increase of £43,000, the receipts for Stamps had increased by £69,000, the land and house tax had increased by £51,000, and the Post Office by £170,000; the
 1478 1479 1480 1481 per contra
 MR. CHILDERS  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, What is the estimated cost of carrying out the provisions of the Land Titles and Transfer Bill; and, whether there will be any objection to lay upon the Table a Statement in detail of such estimated expenditure, before the House goes into Committee on the Bill?
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he felt it his duty to express an opinion different from that of the hon. Member for the City (Mr. Hubbard), when he gave it as his opinion that it was a matter of comparative indifference whether the Estimate of the Chancellor of the Exchequer turned out to be £100,000 or £200,000 wrong, more or less. A proposition of that kind, even from such an authority as matters of finance, seemed to be of a somewhat doubtful character. The hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) and the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Heygate), might certainly have taken too gloomy a view of the financial prospects of the ensuing year; but the view which he (Mr. Stansfeld) ventured to put before the House was this. He did not think that either the hon. Member for Hackney or the hon. Member for the City was quite right. He could not but understand that an Estimate for whatever purpose, should be as exact as an Estimate could be made. The normal growth of the Revenue should then be taken into account, and allowed for as correctly as possible, in order that the Estimate might be as correct as it could be; and then, if any signs of a decline should present themselves, as now, that should be met by the Chancellor of the Exchequer retaining in his hands a sufficient sum to meet any actual deficiency.
 MR. STANSFELD  objected to the proposed alteration.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he was opposed to the extension of the term of 50 years. The clause not only applied to borrowing and re-borrowing, but the limit was fixed at 60 years. Under that provision, a local authority might have borrowed money for 50 years, and when 40 of those years had expired, might come to the Local Government Board for permission to borrow for a further term of 60 years.
 MR. STANSFELD  pointed out that the powers which the hon. and gallant Member desired to see enacted already existed under the present law.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it might be possible in towns to carry out the law without inflicting hardship, but that was not the case in the country where there were thousands of freehold houses, each of two rooms, occupied by single families. The question was, whether the persons
 1500
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  said, he was perfectly satisfied with the assurance of the right hon. Gentleman, and would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  moved, as an Amendment, the insertion, after Clause 33, of the following clause:—
 (Supply of water to districts for drinking and domestic purposes.) "Any sanitary authority may, for the purpose of supplying its district with water for drinking and domestic purposes, purchase either within or without its district any land covered with water, or any water or right to take or convey water in the same manner, and subject to the same regulations in and subject to which it may purchase land within or without its district. And the word 'land' shall in the enactments relating to such purchase he deemed to include any water or right to take or convey water."
 MR. BOURKE , in reply, said, the slave trade on the East Coast of Africa had been very much suppressed. No doubt, however, it was partially revived in other quarters, particularly with regard to the importation of Galla slaves. It having been stated that there was reason to believe that the trade was being carried on at certain places within the Egyptian territory, representations had been made to the Khedive on the subject, and also with respect to the Abyssinian slave trade, and the Khedive had taken very energetic measures on the subject. The Khedive had deposed the pasha who was formerly in command of the whole district, and had put it under another pasha, to whom he had given peremptory orders to take all possible steps to suppress the slave trade. He had no information to give the hon. Gentleman respecting the Turkish slave traffic.
 MR. HANKEY  pointed out that the loans were given on very cheap terms, and that a precedent for extending the
 1499
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, it was not contemplated that there would be any additional cost to the Treasury in carrying out the provisions of the Land Titles and Transfer Bill. The existing staff in the Land Transfer Office would be sufficient for that purpose.
 MR. HEYGATE  emphatically protested against the doctrine that it was wise and expedient to have close Estimates of Revenue. He thought it was neither a wise, a safe, nor a Conservative policy. It was far less an evil that the taxpayers should pay a little more than was necessary, than that taxes should
 1489
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, they must all be actuated by a desire that the Revenue of the country should be in a prosperous condition. He had for some years been an advocate of what the right hon. Baronet called close Estimates, for he thought the country ought not to be treated as a spoilt child, and it did not want to have its powders administered in jam. Of course, it was for the Government, after having estimated what would be the Revenue and Expenditure, to determine how it would dispose of the surplus, and he should not have risen to make a single remark, but for one statement of the right hon. Baronet, which was not entirely consistent with the principle of close Estimates. The right hon. Baronet informed the House that he calculated the Supplementary Estimates would be covered by the reduced expenditure in respect to the contribution to the police. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No.] He was speaking of the reduced expenditure within the present financial year. All he ventured by way of mild criticism to suggest was, that that fact must have been known to the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he introduced his Budget, and that he might as well have mentioned it to the House at that time. In conclusion, he could only express a hope that the expectations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be fully realized.
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  moved, as an Amendment, to insert at end of the clause—
 "Or may from time to time alter and re-adjust the areas and boundaries of representation of the several wards in the different districts as may seem expedient to the Local Government Board."
 MR. CHARLES LEWIS  asked Mr. Attorney General, Whether his attention has been called to the position of the Petition complaining of the undue return of the two Members returned to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Boston, in the following particulars:—1. That while the Petition complained of the undue return of two Members of this House, the last certificate and report of the Judge deal only with the return of one of such Members; 2. That the Election Judge reserved two questions for the decision of the Court of Common Pleas, whereas the decision of such Court disposes of one only of such questions; and, further, whether it is
 1473
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  hoped that due care would be taken of the interests of the particular district into which another sanitary authority might enter.
 MR. GOLDNEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Why the leave rules which the Secretary of State for India sanctioned being extended to certain officers of the Uncovenanted Service, have not been brought into operation as regards Bengal, whilst Oude enjoys the benefit of them; whether the roll of officers in Bengal which was in course of preparation in 1872, has been yet received in the India Office; and, if not, what is the cause of delay; and, whether, according to the notification of the Government of India of 14th March 1872, the officers who may be included in the roll, when transmitted and approved by the Secretary of State, will be admitted to the benefit of the rules if they have taken leave after the 3rd of January 1872?
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  expressed a hope that the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of that Bill would consider on the Report, whether it was not desirable to give larger powers than those given by the clause as it stood, so as to enable different sanitary districts to combine together for the purpose of forming reservoirs for the proper supply of water to the inhabitants—a matter so essential to the health of the community. Moreover, the mere power of forming reservoirs would be quite insufficient without the authority to extend the area for collecting the
 1497
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether he is prepared to state what are the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the filling up of vacancies in the Medical Staff of Militia Regiments, seeing that, according to the Army List for June, there are six surgeoncies and twenty-four assistant-surgeoncies vacant; and, whether the Government is prepared to compensate those surgeons who can show up to the present time any loss or hardship, as promised by Lord Cardwell, that individual cases of such should be "fairly considered? "
 MR. PEASE  agreed that as a general rule, it would be an inconvenient practice to have more than one Budget discussion in the year; but at the same time, he was of opinion that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ponte-fract was justified, under the circumstances, in putting his Question, and he was certain the Answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give satisfaction to the country. The recent fall in wages—the consequent decrease in consumption, and the falling off in various branches of industry—were all matters which were calculated to cause anxiety, and warranted the course which had been pursued.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in that case, perhaps he had not correctly expressed himself. But he took issue with the proposition even as stated by his right hon. Friend, and he would endeavour to show why. He would ask him why it was commonly assumed as an axiom that, if things remained in their normal state, the Revenue of one year was likely to be exceeded by the Revenue of the year following? It was because it was assumed that there was an increase of population, and that that led to a larger
 1484 1485 d d d d d d d 1486 1487
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the practice usually adopted of calling upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make an annual statement of the finances of the country was upon the whole, and under ordinary circumstances, a practice that conduced to public convenience, and was one that ought not lightly to be departed from. Undoubtedly, in many cases within their memory, it had occurred that, after the usual
 1482 1483
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished that the hon. Member had given Notice of his Question, as there was no one there who was in a position now to answer it. When the House met on Monday, no doubt his right hon. Friend would give the hon. Gentleman an answer.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he was glad to hear that the country was satisfied with the Bill, which was, however, only an amending Bill. The water powers contained in the Bill would have to be exorcised carefully; as he knew of a case in which water was condemned merely because it was thick, whereas, on its being analyzed, it was found perfectly fit for drinking. Bain water was commonly allowed to run to waste; but in his part of the country it was collected on the downs, and but for that they would be without water at all. He was particularly pleased with the 36th and 37th clauses of the Bill, which gave power for distributing the cost of works of permanent utility over a longer number of years. He must, however, say he thought it was a very inconvenient course to bring in such a Bill as that, and to read it a first and second time without discussion, and then to have a statement made on the Motion for going into Committee. If his right hon. Friend had made the statement which he had just delivered on the second reading of the Bill, people would not have been frightened in consequence of not knowing what the contents of the Bill really were.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he had no information at the Home Office on the subject, nor was there any, he had ascertained, at the Foreign Office. If, however, his hon. Friend would move for Returns on the subject, he would obtain the information which he required.
 MR. FORTESCUE HARRISON  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether the Government has any information enabling it to compare the wages paid to labourers on the Relief Works in the famine districts of Bengal with the terms offered by other employers of labour in the same locality, and notably in Rannegunge, where it is asserted some of the collieries have been stopped in their working owing to the more favourable terms offered to the men at the Relief Works?
 MR. ROWLEY HILL  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether it is probable that be will be able to bring in a Bill, during the present Session, to give effect to the recommendations contained in the Report of the Committee on Adulteration of Food?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that he had received many deputations and memorials on the subject, but it was not at present his intention to issue a new warrant.
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether the rules which regulate the retirement of Officers on the full pay of their rank after twenty-two years in India are not those of 1868; whether the Officers of the late East India Company's Service are not entitled to retire under the regulations of 1796 and 1824, and are in no ways affected by the regulations of 1868; whether the General Order of August 12, 1824, states that—
 "All Officers who may hereafter retire under the existing regulations shall be allowed the following rates of pay and half-pay respectively," 1522
 COLONEL JERVIS  said, the noble Lord had not answered his Question, as to whether the Royal Warrant had done away with the provisions of the Act 21 and 22 Vic.
 COLONEL JERVIS : Yes.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that he had had a Bill drafted with that object, but he thought it desirable that it should be seen by some of the bodies interested in the matter in order, if possible, to avoid any dispute in that House. He hoped shortly to introduce the Bill.
 MR. BALFOUR  said, he was surprised at the opposition with which the Bill had been met. He thought it had been regarded from a wrong point of view and on wrong issues. A good deal had been said of the unhealthy condition of the Established Church in certain districts, especially in the Highlands. Had the question before the House been one of disestablishment these arguments would have been pertinent. They were not pertinent when the question was merely one of internal reform. It had been said that it was extremely absurd to hand over the election of a minister to the adherents of the Established Church, when there were but two or three of them in the parish. He thought too much had been made of this argument. When there was so little work to be done it was of small importance who had the selection of the person who was to do it. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich had advanced an argument on another point with which he (Mr. Balfour) could not agree. The argument was this. The Free Church, at the time of the Disruption, endured great hardship, in order that a grave abuse might be eradicated from the Church. It was unjust therefore now to abolish the abuse without giving compensation to those who had struggled and suffered in order to obtain that abolition 30 years before. But he (Mr. Balfour) thought it extremely absurd to suppose that one religious sect could thus have a vested interest in the abuses of another. If the Established Church owed compensation to the Free Church because it now adopted a principle for which the Free Church had formerly struggled; England would on the same grounds owe compensation to America, because England had now assented to the principle of self-taxation in the colonies, for which America had struggled and suffered in the war of Independence. It was said that the Bill would have the effect of separating the Church from the land, from the State, and from the people. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University for Edinburgh, that it would have the effect of separating the Church from the land, and to prevent that, he thought some place should be made for the heritors in the electoral body. But he could not see how the Bill would separate the Church either from the State or
 1558
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he often wondered when he heard the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Horsman) address the House, that it had not been his fate to occupy the position at present occupied by his (Mr. Hardy's) right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli), because as to his power of suggestion, his knowledge of incidents that had occurred before a discussion came on, and his foreknowledge of everything which was to happen afterwards, there was no one equal to the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman had been kind enough to tell the House that the Government had originated a policy utterly inconsistent with all their previous theories; that they had not studied the subject; that they had dealt with it without having inquired into the religious conditions of Scotland; and that they had brought in a Bill which had been described as a "Tory device," having nothing whatever to do with the Church of Scotland, but being concocted in the General Assembly, with the assistance, he presumed, of the noble Duke who was once a Member of the late Government, aided by that violent Tory, his hon. Friend the Member for Fife-shire (Sir Robert Anstruther), who had spoken so ardently in favour of the Bill that evening. Let him tell the
 1598 1599 "You take my house when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house." 1600 1601
 MR. O'CONNOR POWER , in moving for an Address for Returns of the names of Fenian prisoners who had died or become insane during the last 10 years, in consequence of the severity of the treatment to which they were subjected
 1610
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  took exception to some expressions in the words of the Motion, as being calculated to convey a false and exaggerated impression of the facts; and as to some of the prisoners, he objected to the word "political" prisoners being applied to them, seeing that some of them had been accessories to the murder of an innocent man in the discharge of his duty. With regard to the observations of the hon. Gentleman in reference to the ill-treatment of these Fenian prisoners, the matter was fully inquired into in 1867, when the Commission was appointed to inquire into the condition of the Fenian prisoners at that time confined in England, and the Commissioners reported that there was not the slightest foundation for the charges made as to the exceptionally severe treatment of those prisoners. Subsequent inquiries which he (Mr. Cross) had caused to be made in reference to the Fenian prisoners, both in this country and in Ireland, had convinced him that such charges were wholly without foundation; and that, instead of the prisoners being
 1611
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Perhaps the hon. and gallant Gentleman will be good enough to repeat the Question to-morrow.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, no retiring regulations were issued in 1868. The General Order of August 12, 1824, states that—
 "All Officers who may hereafter retire under the existing regulations shall be allowed the following rates of pay and half-pay respectively," s s d s d
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, the Collector of Burdwan, in whose district Rannegunge is situated, reported that, on the 4th of May—
 "Some correspondence is going on, in regard to the rate of wages paid on the Relief Works in charge of the sub-divisional officer in Rannegunge. The managing director of the Bengal Coal Company has complained that his coolies are attracted away by the rate of wages, two annas and one pice, equivalent to 3 d 1519
 MR. DISRAELI : I promised, Sir, the other evening that, in the interval which would elapse before we met again, I would consider the state of the Public Business, with reference to its probable progress, and make a statement to the House to-night on the subject. What I am about to say has reference not only to Government measures, but to a measure not introduced by the Government, one in which the House takes great interest. I do not know that there is any material fact to remark upon with respect to the programme which I stated to the House a short time ago. There are I three Government Bills which have been read a first time, and which it is possible to pass—namely, the Church Patronage (Scotland) Bill, which we shall proceed with this evening; the Endowed Schools Act Amendment Bill, which has just been mentioned; and the India Councils Bill. The Bills respecting judicature and land have all been read a second time, and with regard to other Bills which have also passed that stage, it is not supposed that they will occupy I much time in Committee. One day, it
 1524 1525 1526 1527
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the next stage of the Irish Judicature Bill had been fixed for Thursday next; but he could not give any promise with regard to the progress of that Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he hoped they might take the Bill that evening, because he thought it probable that the debate on the Scotch Patronage Bill might end by nine o'clock; but if not, the India Councils Bill could not come on until next week.
 MR. RITCHIE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he can give any information as to the actual intentions of the French Government with reference to the complete execution of the Sugar Convention of 1864; and, whether the system of refining in bond is likely to be introduced this season into French sugar refineries?
 DR. C. CAMERON  : * 1528 "This claim (for the abolition of patronage) is urged in the interests of the whole community. …. The great mass of the people of Scotland are Presbyterians, belonging to Churches which agree in doctrine, discipline, and worship; and, from the previous statement, it appears that the repeal of the law of patronage would at least remove one of the chief obstacles to union." "It was not recommended to the House as a means of re-union with other Churches, but had been prepared for the benefit of the people of the Church of Scotland, with which alone it dealt."—[3  Hansard 1529 "A plan," they write, "not unlike the scheme now suggested by the Church for the appointment of ministers, is and has for many years, been actually adopted by the Crown, by Corporations, and by not a few private patrons, in giving the choice of the minister to the heritors and communicants. It is accordingly a fact, that lay patronage has become gradually practically obsolete in many of the parishes of Scotland." Oliver and Boyd 1530 1531 "It was remarkable that in a country so poor, prudent, and prone to calculate the future as Scotland, Dissent should have gained so great a hold and he still increasing among the people—that they preferred to pay for the same ordinances which they received at the Parish Church for nothing." "There is no hope, in my opinion," said he, "of any re-union between the Free Church, the Ignited Presbyterians, and the Established Church of Scotland. The very fact that in the one case they have 600 and in the other 900 ministers supported by voluntary contributions militates against it. There are difficulties amounting to impossibilities which never would admit of the union of the Free and Established Churches." 1532 "They were told that one great object of the measure was to build a bridge over which the members of the Free Church, and others who had seceded from it, would be able to pass in order to re-unite themselves to the Establishment. Anything more preposterous than that he could not conceive. In his view, it was a total impossibility. In that Bill they did not touch the one main cause which led to the disruption of the Church."—[3  Hansard "The value and importance of an article is often tested by the price which it fetches, and
 1533 Hansard "The worth of anything Is just so much as it will bring"— "Government, in giving to private patrons one year's stipend as compensation has given them very much more than they could ever have got in the market." 1534 s d s 1535 1536 "that the election of a minister should not he exclusively in the hands of the communicants of the parish, inasmuch as he is not only the minister of the communicants, but the minister of the parish." "If either Dr. Wallace's or Dr. Cook's Motion is carried, I, for one, would he prepared to give up the Bill altogether." "and inasmuch as it is difficult for parishes in the Highlands and islands to obtain qualified ministers connected with the Church of Scotland, it shall he lawful for the aforesaid body of combined electors in such parishes to appoint any ordained minister belonging to any Presbyterian Church holding the same standards as the Church of Scotland, and such minister shall, in virtue of such appointment, have right to the full proceeds of the benefit, and be subject to the Ecclesiastical Judicators of such Presbyterian Church as he may himself elect to adhere to." 1537 1538 The U.P. whom they tread upon In mortal suff'rance feels a pang as great As when a Bishop dies. 1539 "always said there is no hope whatever of the re-union of the Free and Established Churches except on the ground of Disestablishment."—[3  Hansard 1540
 MR. M'LAREN : Sir, it has been contended that the principle of the Bill would be simply a repeal of the Act of Queen Anne. I altogether deny that such is the principle of the measure in any shape or form. Suppose you pass a Bill of one clause through Parliament, to the effect that the Act of Queen Anne shall be repealed, what will be the result? Why, not that you will get universal suffrage of all the men and women in Scotland who are professed communicants; but the Act of 1690, which the Act of Queen Anne repealed, will be revived, by which the heritors and elders will appoint a man and present him to
 1562 1563 1564 "In 1649, an Act of Parliament was passed declaring that patronages and presentations to kirks is an evil and bondage under which the Lord's people and ministers of this land have long groaned; that it hath no warrant in God's Word, but is founded only on the canon law, and is a custom Popish, and brought into the kirk in time of ignorance and superstition,' and therefore abolishing all patronage, and 'seriously recommending to the next General Assembly to condescend upon a certain standing-way' for filling up vacant parishes. The next Assembly accordingly did draw up a directory for this purpose, vesting the power of selecting the ministers with consent of congregations in the several kirk-sessions. It did not confer the right to nominate or elect the minister on the people, but only the right to reject when not satisfied with the person presented. The power to select and nominate was vested in the kirk-session—that is, in the elders, usually a very small body, and practically appointed by the minister of the parish for the time being." 1565 1566 1567 1568 "Because the appointment of the minister of the parish by the communicants of the Established Church only, while it recognizes their paramount interest in such appointment, ignores the fact that there may be many others in the parish, who, though not of the Church, may have a deep interest in the spiritual welfare of all its inhabitants, and a sincere respect and attachment to the Church; and because in the appointment of one who in the eye of the Church is the minister not of a particular religious denomination, but the pastor of the parish, and who as such is supported not by his flock, but by funds drawn from the whole lands of the parish, &c." "Because the allegation so generally made that the existence of patronage has been the cause of all the secessions from the Church of Scotland, and that its withdrawal would at once open the way for the reunion of the dissentient. Presbyterian Bodies with the Church, is not founded on historical fact; and that the secession of the Free Church originated not in their objection to patronage, which the leading men of their party in the Church powerfully defended, but in their assertion in 1839 of what they called spiritual independence—in other words, the right of the Church to interpret for herself the acts by which she is established, and to act on that interpretation." 1569 "The Assembly declare that no act intended to alter the law of patronage can have the effect of removing the grounds of separation recorded in the protest read before Her Majesty's Commissioners on the 19th May, 1843. That the General Assembly protest against legislation professedly in the interest of Scotland generally, which proceeds on the application of the General Assembly of one body of Christians, without inquiry into the condition, convictions, or wishes of the people generally; and they cannot but consider the entire disregard with which this Church and the other disestablished Presbyterian Churches are treated as peculiarly unbecoming, viewed in the light of the circumstances in which successively they have felt themselves constrained to separate from State connection." "The Synod being opposed in principle to civil establishments of religion, condemns all legislation designed, as the Bill is, to extend and perpetuate the system, or to popularize its operation. The Bill is directly antagonistic to the position which the Synod firmly holds—that the legislation immediately demanded, and which alone can meet the circumstances of the case, is disestablishment and disendowment. They need no Bill like the present to rid them of the grievance of patronage. If that is all they seek, a disestablishment measure will equally and better set them free to choose their own ministers, at the same time that it will relieve other Churches and citizens of the injustice and grievance of which they complain in the system of establishment and endowment. The Synod objects to the Bill, because it is designed to open a door to attempts to relax or throw off the legitimate control of the State over its beneficiaries, to set up a system of rights without duties, of patronage without responsibility, and to combine ecclesiastical independence with State endowment—a result which would be favourable neither to religion nor liberty." "That the said Bill, politically considered, is an insult and a wrong to their Churches, and to the majority of the people of Scotland, inasmuch as the proposal still further to favour and foster by national legislation a sect already invidiously and unjustly privileged, and that sect not a majority in the country, is a glaring outrage on political equity, is fitted still further to aggravate ecclesiastical differences in Scotland, and to deepen and embitter the sense of existing wrongs." 1570 1571 The Edinburgh Directory 1572
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Ayrshire (Mr. Montgomerie) with all the attention due to one who spoke with great knowledge of the subject. The hon. Gentleman had told them that the whole object of the Bill was the abolition of Church patronage in Scotland; but he had omitted to notice that the abolition of patronage was one thing and the mode of its abolition another. The principle of the Bill was abolition of patronage, and with that principle he heartily concurred; but it was another point to consider whether the mode of that abolition was wise and satisfactory. The question was whether, if the Bill passed without the Amendments which had been indicated, it would be likely to strengthen or to weaken the Established Church in Scotland. Upon that point, if the Bill were pressed on in its present form, he should feel it his duty to oppose it. The hon. Member for Ayrshire also congratulated the Government upon the introduction of the measure; but by this time, the conviction must have forced itself on the hon. Gentleman and the Government that the abolition of patronage in the Church of Scotland was not quite so small a
 1590 1591 1592 1593 1594 1595 1596 1597
 MR. SYNAN  said, he had given Notice to move that the Bill be re-committed, on the ground that an Amendment, of which he had given Notice, had not been considered. He referred to the omission of the 5th clause. He intended proposing its omission on the consideration of the Report, and was in his place until a late hour on Thursday, or rather an early hour on Friday morning. The discussion on the Public Worship Bill had, however, been extended until an advanced hour, and he left the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) speaking upon the subject with the appearance of
 1606
 MR. GEORGE BROWNE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is intended to issue a new warrant for the Army Medical Department; and, if so, when the issue of such warrant may be expected?
 MR. HUNT : Sir, the ships employed in the repression of the East African slave trade form part of the East Indian squadron. The ships detailed especially for that service are the  Thetis Vulture Nassau Daphne Shearwater; Daphne Shearwater London Flying Fish Egeria
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, when I moved, in the early part of the Session, for a Select Committee on the working of the Adulteration of Food Acts, I expressed an earnest hope that the Committee might be able so to restrict the number of witnesses to be examined, that it might be possible to legislate on the subject this year, if legislation were found to be necessary. As the hon. Gentleman is aware, that restriction was not found to be practicable, and the Report of the Committee has only been in our hands within the last few days, it must be obvious, therefore, that it would be quite impossible for me to make any proposal on a matter of so much difficulty and interest in the limited time now available.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, If he would postpone the Second Reading on the Expiring Laws Continuance Bill, fixed for to-night, until Thursday, as Members were unable, up to the last sitting of the House, to obtain any information as to what Laws were to be re-enacted?
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he will furnish to the House, previously to the Second Reading of the Judicature (Ireland) Bill, Copies of the Correspondence which has taken place between the Chief Secretary for Ireland and the Attorney General, and the Irish Judges and the Judges of the Landed Estate Court since the 1st of March last?
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, that as a matter of fact there had been a Correspondence with the Attorney General.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  suggested that in that case it would be better to put a Question to the Attorney General on the subject.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  pointed out that as the Bill in question had already been read a second time, it would be impossible to comply with the suggestion of the hon. Member. At the same time, he was not aware that there had been any Official Correspondence on the subject between the Judges and the Irish Government.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, he could certainly assure the hon. Member that he had no desire to have
 1607
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that the Schedules had been taken from the Local Government Act of 1871, and his reason for including these small places was, that they were now places having a  quasi
 MR. R. W. DUFF : I must confess, Sir, that when this question was brought before Parliament this Session, I regarded it with a considerable degree of embarrassment. This is a Bill professedly to abolish lay patronage in the Church of Scotland, and I have avowed myself to my constituents in favour of such a course; but the further this Bill has gone the more I have been convinced that the advantage or disadvantage that the abolition of patronage will produce must depend entirely on the spirit and manner in which that object, desirable in itself, is effected. If you propose to take the patronage out of the hands of the present lay patrons and hand it over to the nation, as represented by the whole Presbyterian community of Scotland, then I think the abolition of patronage a most desirable object; but if, on the other hand, you propose to hand it over to a section of a section of a Presbyterian minority—if you make it an occasion to assimilate the system of Church government of all the Presbyterian communities, while you confine the revenue and privileges exclusively to one—then, Sir, the abolition of patronage has no attractions for me. The whole of the speech of the right hon. and learned Lord in introducing this measure was directed to prove that there was a desire to get rid of patronage within the Church, to return to a state of things that undoubtedly prevailed at one period of the 17th century; but why did not the Established Church discover the existence of this feeling in 1843, when it numbered a proportion of the people that warranted the title of a National Church? The right hon. and learned Lord, as well as several other speakers—notably the Duke of Argyll, in "another place"—has found it convenient to ignore the existence of the Presbyterian communities other than the Established Church; but I say, Sir, looking to the relation of the Dissenting Bodies to the Established Church, it is
 1579 1580 1581
 MR. HANBURY  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, What is the present strength of the squadron engaged
 1521
 MR. VANS AGNEW  thanked Her Majesty's Government for having introduced the Bill. He supported it as the Representative of a constituency, many members of which were deeply interested in the welfare of the Church of Scotland; and as a member of that Church, and as a patron of Church livings, he also gave his support to it. He approved the main object of the Bill—namely, to repeal the statute of Queen Anne, which had excited so many disputes in Scotland, and the objections to which statute had been urged so long and so earnestly by the Church of Scotland. The patronage of parishes in Scotland was a very different thing from the system of advowson of parishes in England. Since the passing of Lord Aberdeen's Act, the parishioners in Scotland had a right to object to any presentee, and the actual value of a patron's right of presentation in Scotland since that date had become very small indeed, and he was not disposed to quarrel therefore with the amount of compensation awarded in the Bill. The most that could be said in favour of patronage as it had existed in Scotland for the last 50
 1573 1574 "Such pretensions could not be conceded without the surrender of civil liberty, and without the sacrifice of personal rights," "It was neither more nor less than a claim for Churchmen of exemption from the duty of obedience to the statute law." 1575 Peccavi, 1576 1577 1578
 MR. MONTGOMERIE  said, after the exhaustive speeches which had been delivered on the subject, and especially after the very able one of the hon. Member for Fife, it seemed presumptuous in him to offer any remarks; but he wished to thank the Government for having introduced the measure, which he felt assured would be acceptable to the whole of the Church of Scotland. It was all very well for the hon. Member for Stirling (Mr. Campbell-Bannerman), to assert that the cry for the abolition of patronage was got up by the leaders of the General Assembly, but he (Mr. Montgomerie) could state that during his canvass in 1868, and again in 1874, the first remark made to him by all persons connected with the Established Church was—"I hope you will do all you can to get rid of patronage." It was a pleasure to him that the Bill had been introduced by a Conservative Government. Hitherto the question had been treated as one whether the Church of Scotland should be disestablished or not, but that was really not the question before the House. To that question the late Parliament gave a decided
 1582 1583
 MR. KNOWLES  asked the Secretary
 1518
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that the second reading of the Expiring Laws Continuance Bill would not be taken before Thursday next.
 MR. FORDYCE  said, as a county Member, and a Liberal, he wished to explain to the House the vote which he intended to give on the Bill. Ever since he had had the honour of a scat in the House of Commons, he never experienced a greater difficulty and embarrassment, or a deeper sense of responsibility respecting the decision he had to come to. It had been remarked by the hon. Member for Bute (Mr. Dalrymple), that if the Bill had been introduced 30 years ago, it might have been of some use in strengthening and making permanent the Established Church of Scotland. That might be, but he (Mr. Fordyce) doubted very much that it would have had the slightest tendency now to remove what caused the separation from the Church 30 years ago. He could not shut his ears to the fact that those who ought to know a great deal respecting the Church of Scotland, and the promoters of the Bill, took a very different view of the result likely to accrue from its passage into law. They thought that the passage of this Bill would be the
 1559 vice versâ 1560 1561
 COLONEL MURE : There is, Sir, what I may call a remarkable phenomenon in the ecclesiastical condition of Scotland which the House should observe and recollect—namely, that, notwithstanding that between one-half and one-third are Dissenters, and that these Dissenters are divided into sections strongly antagonistic to each other, and each and severally being strongly antagonistic to the mother Church—in all is the creed, form of worship, and internal Church discipline identically the same. They all preach the purest Calvinistic doctrine; and in even the refinements of doctrine, there is no divergence between them; and they all diligently inculcate submission to the constituted authorities, and a loyal devotion to the Throne. They are undoubtedly, though split up, the bulwark of pure doctrine and loyalty, Yet, Sir, so antagonistic are they, that unity has long been looked at as a chimera, a vain dream. In the Church of England, the divergence of opinion is most distinct, and the doctrines preached almost diametrically contradictory of each other. In one church in London you will find the clergyman dressed in a Geneva gown preaching pure Calvinism. In a church a few yards off you find the vestments, the
 1584 1585 locus standi beau idéal plebiscite 1586 1587 1588 1589
 MR. R. SMYTH : I concur in much that has been said by my hon. Friend (Mr. Synan), and do not think that the Chief Secretary for Ireland has successfully vindicated the course which has been taken in bringing forward this Bill from night to night, at an hour when Irish Members must of necessity have relaxed their vigilance. The right hon. Gentleman has betrayed a misapprehension as to the present state of the law with respect to occasional licences. The Act of 1872 does not give magistrates unlimited discretion as to hours in the case of fairs and race-courses, but does so in the case of balls and other in-door gatherings. I would remind the House that this Licensing Bill was introduced at 1 o'clock in the morning on the 16th of May, without one word of explanation. The second reading was moved at half-past 1 o'clock in the morning, without a single word from the right hon. Baronet to show with what motives it originated, what was its principle, what were its objects, or what great reasons of State policy had impelled the Ministry to undertake such a measure. This is one of the measures which were honoured with a reference in the Speech from the Throne. I do not for a moment suppose that a Licensing Bill for Ireland was deemed of less consequence than one for England, and therefore I claim, without fear of contradiction, that this was regarded as one of the great measures which were to make this Session memor-
 1608 1609
 MR. ERRINGTON (for Mr. W. SHAW)  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 7, after "corporate," to insert "and town and township having not less than
 1605
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, if that House were asked merely to assent to a general proposition to the effect that the healthiest and most natural footing upon which to invest the appointment of ministers was to leave it to the free choice of those who were to benefit by their ministrations, he believed there would be a general assent on that side of the House. It was in that sense, and in that sense only, that the Scotch people were in favour of the Bill. The hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Anstruther) said, that Scotch people were in favour of the Bill, and yet from his concluding observations, it would appear that he was by no means sure of his own statements; while as to the fervour with which he had delivered his sentiments on the matter, he (Mr. Campbell-Bannerman) could only attribute it to the heated atmosphere in which the Bill was debated. He quite agreed that the people of Scotland were against patronage. There had been exceptions. Up to a few years ago, the great exceptions were the Tory party; but the Liberal party and the Dissenters had maintained the right of the people to choose their own ministers. But, unfortunately, they had not in this instance to deal with a general proposition. Parliament was asked to alter fundamentally the constitution of the Established Church in this respect, and therefore they had to consider not only the general theory involved in the Bill, but also the circumstances of the people, the juncture at which this abolition of patronage was proposed, and the probable effects that might follow from the carrying out of such a policy. Now, as he understood it, the object of the Bill was to strengthen the Church of
 1554 1555 1556
 MR. AGG GARDNER  asked the Secretary of State for War, If it is his intention to bring forward, this Session, the short Bill for the settlement of the claims of officers of the late Indian Ordnance Corps, in respect of compensation for the loss of the sale of their Commissions, which in the early part of June he promised should be introduced?
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down commenced his observations by referring to the lion and the lamb, and he (Sir Robert Anstruther) was anxious to ascertain from him which was the lion and which was the lamb. It appeared that the Established Church was the lion, and the Free Church and the United Presbyterian Church were the lamb. That was a new feature in the debate. They thought that they had been dealing with people who were opponents, and whose language, speech, and actions towards the Established Church were very different from the actions of lambs. If, however, they had to deal with Bodies whose whole conduct, habit, spirit, and demeanour, were those of lambs, he was visionary enough to think that they might be able to make something of the Bill, and that it might be accepted by the Voluntary Churches in Scotland—as it had been extended to them—as a plain and handsome offer. There was nothing more remarkable in the course of this debate, than this one fact—not a single hon. Member had ventured to oppose the principle of the Bill. He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) if that was not true, and he would have done the same to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone) had he been present; but he (Sir Robert Anstruther) regretted that he was not in his place, though he had been brought up to London by the great glut of ecclesiastical subjects, and he must know that his speech would be commented on by both sides. Well, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baxter) had admitted that there was no case to be made out against the principle of the Bill, while the late Prime Minister had admitted that the abolition of patronage had always been asked for by the people of Scotland.
 1541 1542 "That this Assembly resolve and declare that patronage is a grievance and an injury to the cause of true religion, and is the main cause of the difficulties in which the Church is at present involved." "No doubt it is eminently satisfactory to the Liberal party to find the Conservative party in this House and its allies in the Established Church of Scotland at last confessing to the evils of a system which they have hitherto laboured to uphold against the continued protests of the Scotch people." 1543 The Ten Years' Conflict 1544 1545 1546 "It was an alien Church, a monument of conquest and bloodshed, and diametrically opposed in spirit, doctrine, and faith to the feelings of the people of Ireland." 1547 "Remember, I am a Churchman, and not a Dissenter. I am as thoroughly convinced of the necessity of an Established Church as I am of any principle of the Constitution." "Let us unite together—how I care not: lot there be a thorough and complete support of the Protestant institutions of this country." 1548 1549 1550 1551 1552 "The right of electing and appointing ministers to vacant churches and parishes in Scotland shall be vested in the members of the congregation of such vacant churches and parishes respectively, subject to such regulations in regard to the mode of naming and proposing a minister by means of a committee, and of conducting the election and of making the appointment as may from time to time be framed by the General Assembly." 1553
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, there had been a good deal of Correspondence on the subject, both public and private, and the latest information he had was, that no
 1520
 SIR THOMAS BAZLEY  asked the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether it is true that live cattle imported from Brittany and Normandy into Southampton are not permitted to be forwarded to London; and, if so, what is the ground for this restriction on the Foreign cattle trade; and, whether the Government have any reason to believe that there is now any cattle plague in Brittany and Normandy?
 VISCOUNT SANDON : It is true, Sir, that live cattle imported from Brittany and Normandy into Southampton are not permitted to be forwarded to London until they have undergone a quarantine of 14 days, and the same restriction applies to all cattle coming from France. The reason of the restriction is that Germany, Belgium, and Italy are among the countries to which the regulations of the 4th Schedule of the Act of 1869 apply, and as we have no information that satisfactory precautions are taken at the French frontier to prevent the introduction of cattle from the above-mentioned countries into France, or through France into Great Britain, the regulations of the 4th Schedule are applied to France also. There is no reason to believe that cattle plague exists in any part of France.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that since the Notice of the Question had been given, he had placed himself in communication with the Lord Chancellor, with whom, and not with the Home Office, the matter of the appointments referred to rested. He had the authority, he might add, of that noble and learned Lord to make the following statement:—That it was represented to him, and he believed it to be the case, that out of 16 magistrates for the city of Worcester seven only attended. The remaining nine either had not qualified, or were unable to attend, or did not attend. He therefore appointed six gentlemen, whom, after full inquiry, he believed to be extremely well qualified for the office. Pour of them were, or had been, members of the Corporation, and two had filled the office of mayor. The corporation, and all other public bodies, and, indeed, everyone who wished to do so, were free to recommend to the Lord Chancellor anyone they desired to see appointed; but, of course, he could not undertake to submit names for the approval of any body or person whatever as a condition precedent to their appointment. He might add that, although the Lord Chancellor could not, nor was it necessary that he should, have any accurate knowledge of the political opinions of those appointed, yet he had reason to believe that of the six whom he had appointed four were Conservatives, and that with these six the acting magistrates would now be equally divided as to politics—while if all the magistrates, acting and not acting, were included, there would be a considerable majority of Liberals. There was no official Correspondence either with the Home Office or the Lord Chancellor on the subject, and any Correspondence which might have passed touch-
 1623
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : In answer, Sir, to the Question of my hon. Friend, I have to state that the Home Office has not been in the habit of interfering in matters of this kind, except in cases where persons have been engaged who are not able to protect themselves, as in the case of young children. I can mention one special case where the Home Office did interfere—the case of the child whom Blondin attempted to carry over the rope. But in this case, as my hon. Friend will see, the gentleman who was unfortunately killed was a person fully able to take care of himself. At the same time, I should like to have an opinion on that subject, in order to see whether something might not be done; but, at the present moment, the whole matter is under judicial investigation before the coroner, and before the inquest is finished, and a verdict given by the jury, I do not think it would be right in me to make any public statement.
 MR. LOPES , in reply, said, that having regard to the late period of the Session and the amount of business which remained to be got through, he had no hope of passing the Bill this Session. He was sure, however, that, considering the principles of it had been sanctioned by the House, the public would not be satisfied until some such measure became law.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that as this was a  quasi 1675 1676 1677
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  wished to address a few words to the House on this question, not as a Member of any party or section, but as one interested in education, who looked on the cause of education as entirely irrespective of and above party. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General had praised the speech of the noble Lord (Viscount Sandon) because it had in it "the true Conservative ring." Now, it was because the noble Lord's speech had any "ring" in it but an educational "ring" that he deeply regretted that the noble Lord had spoken as he had. He had heard that speech with surprise, both because of the tone in which he had spoken, and because of the attack which he had made on the Endowed Schools Commissioners. The noble Lord was almost the last man from whom he should have expected to hear a speech on this subject pervaded by a partizan tone, for he was reminded of a speech made by him on the Motion of the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Melly) in 1869 upon neglected children in large towns in which the noble Lord had said that no party considerations ought to influence them upon such questions. He (Mr. Kay-Shuttleworth) wanted to know why the education of children in endowed schools should be treated more from a party point of view than the education of neglected children in large towns. He deprecated extremely the tone of the noble Lord's speech, and he ventured to say that no Minister had ever imported a similar tone into their debates on education. He also deprecated the attack of the noble Lord on the Commissioners. They were public servants—intrusted with very large and exceptional duties—constituted, in fact,
 1678 1679 "The published opinions of some of the Commissioners on the subject of endowments have caused alarm, and have in some cases seriously impeded harmonious action, &c." "For example, I believe in Sussex you have done very little?"—"Very little." "It has not been, sometimes, from a want of desire on the part of local boards of trustees that you should deal with their schools, because I myself was the channel of a communication from Hastings, requesting you to deal with the schools at Hastings?"—"So far from that, it is a most unpleasant part of our functions, that we are often obliged to refuse the most urgent applications." 1680 "Your Committee regret that they have been unable fully to consider the recommendation of the Schools Inquiry Commission, that every endowed school should be subject to periodical inspection and annual examination, and that a Council of Examinations should be created. The second part of the Endowed Schools Bill (1869) provided for the formation of such a council, but did not become law. Your Committee
 1681
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that the measure now before the House was a legacy left by the late Government in this matter of endowed schools. When, in 1869, the matter was brought forward by the right hon. Member for Bradford, he stated to the House the grounds upon which the Commissioners to be appointed under the Act would carry on their proceedings, and also that in the course of a few years such a reform would be made in the educational institutions of the
 1696 1697 1698 "Required by the express terms of the original instrument of foundation or of the statutes or regulation made by the founder or under his authority, in his life-time or within 50 years after his death (which term has been observed down to the commencement of this Act), to learn or to be instructed according to the doctrines or formularities of any particular Church, sect, or denomination." 1699
 MR. GLADSTONE  said: Mr. Speaker, the views of Gentlemen sitting on this side of the House have been expressed with much ability by those who have preceded me, and I therefore do not Think it necessary for me to enter in detail into many questions which have been discussed to-night. Indeed, there are a number of points upon which, it appears to me, there is but little difference of opinion; but I wish briefly to run over what appear to me to be the main points of this discussion; and, first, I must refer to that which certainly is not the least disagreeable amongst them—namely, the manner in which the Endowed Schools Commissioners have been treated by the noble Lord who introduced the Bill. I have no doubt the noble Lord himself is under a totally different impression; but it is right that he should know that to all those who feel an interest in the character and reputation of those Commissioners, and to all those who sit on this side of the House, it appeared that his comments upon them were distinguished by an unmerited harshness; and, moreover, that they were of a nature which I will venture to say is not usual to pass between Members of the Executive Government and Members of a Commission who share with the Executive Government the honour of serving the country. Why is it, Sir, that the Commissioners are to be dismissed? The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down endeavoured to
 1700 1701 1702 1703 1704 nil 1705 1706 1707 1708 1709 Vestigia nulla retrorsum 1710
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he wished to be allowed to say a few words on the subject of the Bill now before the House. The right hon. Gentleman had called the Bill inequitable, unusual, and unwise. He knew that those sentiments had been echoed by those who sat behind the right hon. Gentleman, but he trusted that he might be allowed to express his opinion with the same freedom which the right hon. Gentleman had employed. And first of all, with reference to the unwisdom of the measure, the Government must take the responsibility of its own acts as far as that was concerned. The right hon. Gentleman volunteered to say that the supporters of the Church were in this instance looking to more pounds, shillings, and pence; but he (Mr. G. Hardy) ventured to say that they were looking not so much to the interests of the Church as to her duties, and they were not going to shrink from their responsibility because these interests happened to involve a question of pounds, shillings, and pence. It was for these reasons that he advocated the present Bill. Would the right hon. Gentleman who said that the present Government had taken an unusual course maintain that one Parliament had no right to interfere with what had been done by a previous Parliament, even when the liberties of England had been overturned? When Romanism had been restored, ought not a subsequent Parliament to have had the opportunity of restoring Protestantism? If the Church, the Crown, and the House of Lords were to be abolished, what better could be done than to restore them? He should like to know whether they were to leave everything without amendment, or whether if was only their immediate Predecessors who were to be entitled to
 1711 1712 1713 1714 1715 1716
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  must say that his notions of the speech delivered by the noble Lord (Viscount Sandon) were as different as possible from those which had been attributed to him by the last two speakers on the opposite side of the House. He was not aware that his noble Friend had thrown stones at the Commissioners in any way. He had said that their acts were very unpopular out-of-doors, and in doing so had never spoken truer words. He (Mr. Neville-Grenville) had joined the Schools Inquiry Committee full of his own grievances, and he had found that although his friends were complaining of what they considered to be essentially Church schools, unchurched by the Commissioners, yet that there were gentlemen representing the Nonconformists there, who were even more angry with the Commissioners for not having given the Nonconformists a larger interest in these endowed schools. He should never attack the Commissioners, because he was certain they had been actuated by the
 1686
 LORD FREDERICK CAVENDISH  agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that great assistance in this work might be rendered by county associations, which were both powerful and influential in matters relating to education; but when the Commissioners thought it advisable to propose schemes which were against the wishes of those associations, that very power and influence only increased the difficulties which stood in the way of their discharging their duties, for the trustees of the schools concerned would fight hard and long rather than give up the power they possessed. The noble Lord
 1684 1685
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he was surprised at the arguments which had been addressed to the House by the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, coming, as they did from him. Whether hon. Members agreed with the hon. Baronet or not, at least they were usually able to welcome with pleasure the broad and philosophic views of a man who thought much, and had the courage to express what he thought. In the present case, he must say he missed that breadth. The hon. Baronet spoke of the presumed inconsistency of those who supported the present Bill, or were in favour of any system of education which made the inculcation of distinctive doctrine a matter of necessity, because they had in a former Session of Parliament opposed the Burials Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Denbighshire (Mr. Osborne Morgan). But, so far from being inconsistent, they were acting, in both cases, with logical exactness. Their position was the same in both instances. For his part, he was always anxious to co-operate with those who desired, in the matter of education, to secure the provisions which they possessed for teaching their specific religious tenets to the children under their charge. It was in like manner, and out of a similar regard for distinctive convictions, that he desired that the various religious bodies should have places of burial, in which their own specific forms of service might be used. In each case they should each and all have the full productive use of their own particular machinery. How, then, could it be said that they were acting inconsistently? Their claim was that a certain course of religious teaching should be allowed to hold its own way unmolested by antagonistic views. The hon. Baronet had expressed the opinion that the adoption of the principle of the
 1670 1671 1672
 MR. SHERRIFF  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to a Petition presented to this House on Thursday last, from the Mayor and Corporation of Worcester, which alleges that six gentlemen had recently been appointed magistrates for that city, five
 1622
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said:—Mr. Speaker, I desire to protest against an assumption of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster). He has included Warwickshire among the counties, to which the Endowed Schools Commissioners have given satisfaction. The right hon. Gentleman must permit me to observe that, inasmuch as I divided the House against the continuance of this Commission, when the Endowed Schools Continuance Bill was before the House last Session, and that, in the last House of Commons, my Amendment, which would have sooner terminated the existence of the Commission, was lost by only 11 votes, the right hon. Gentleman was not justified in representing Warwickshire as satisfied with the Endowed Schools Act, or with the conduct of the Commissioners. On the contrary, I can answer for it, that in no county was there a greater feeling of injury, nay, of outrage, than prevailed in Warwickshire; and I believe that the emphatic expression of that feeling had a good deal to do with the inclination of the House to curtail the temporary existence of this Commission. The right hon. Gentleman now refers, and fairly, to the modified conduct of the Commissioners after they had been virtually condemned. For the fact is, that they were condemned before they modified
 1657 1658
 MR. HUNT , in reply, said, he failed to see what the result of the inquiry into the case of the  Narcissus Agincourt
 MR. WHALLEY  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether, having regard to the result of the inquiry into the case of the "Narcissus," it is intended to restore Admiral Wilmot to the position he held previous to the accident to Her Majesty's ship "Agincourt?"
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, What instructions are given to the Officers of the School Boards with regard to private adventure schools; and, whether they have authority (as recently stated) to threaten the proprietors of such schools, and inform them that they must raise their terms, and pass an examination, or close their schools?
 MR. WHITWELL  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Wheelhouse) had been unfortunate in his instances. The Bradford school had been much improved under the new scheme. The number of boys had increased, education had been improved, and very large endowments had been added since the Commissioners had interfered. Giggles-wick school had also been greatly benefited by their action. He was surprised to hear Sedbergh school cited as one that required no amendment. Within living memory it had sent very many candidates of distinction to the Universities. It had, however, of late years degenerated, and the number of boys had so much fallen off that Sedbergh became a scandal to the system of Endowed Schools. He was glad the Commissioners had taken it in hand. The substantial question involved was one which ought not to be prejudiced by party animosity, for it certainly did not belong to the regions of party. The Bill of 1869 was no more that of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) than it was the Bill of every Member of that and the other House of Parliament. A great many small schemes remained to be
 1664
 MR. DILLWYN  expressed his belief that the Endowed Schools Commissioners had done their work well and thoroughly, but considered that this was merely a matter of detail. It was mainly on the ground of principle that he objected to the Bill. The question really before the House was whether or not instruments of endowment were to be interpreted strictly. Many years ago he brought in a Bill on this subject, and at that time he took great pains to see what were the conditions which founders generally imposed. He remembered one case in which one of these public benefactors left trusts for the benefit of his native parish for the maintenance of roads and
 1673 1674
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said: Though this Bill professes by its Preamble to make further provision for liberal education in endowed schools—not as in the old Act to bring a liberal education within the reach of all classes—yet in its provisions it does not contain a single line, or, indeed, a single word for this purpose. Its objects are, however, transparent. It is a Bill for getting rid of a Commission which has honestly acted in promoting liberal education, but has not done so in a spirit of sectarian exclusiveness. The speech of my right hon. Friend the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) exhausts the defence of the Commission. Yet one aspect of the defence strikes me forcibly. Though the Bill enacts capital punishment on the Commissioners, their crimes are of omission, not commission. Incessant complaints have been made in regard to them by hon. Gentlemen on the other side, but not one of these is alluded to or is rectified by this Bill. The Commissioners have been said to be  doctrinaires 1687 1688 1689 1690 1691 1692 cum advisamento episcopi 1693 "Why must our concern for religion be eternally made a cloke to hide our real drifts and worldly intentions? Would both parties agree to pull off the mask, we should soon discover that whatever they pretend to they aim at nothing so much in charity schools as to strengthen their party; and that the great sticklers for the Church, by educating the children in the principles of religion, mean inspiring them with a superlative veneration for the clergy of the Church of England, and a strong aversion and immortal animosity against all that dissent from it." 1694 1695
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  asked the hon. Member for Frome, On what day he proposes to proceed with the Juries Bill; and if he has any expectation that it will pass into law this Session?
 MR. ASSHETON  observed, that he had nothing personally to say against either the Endowed Schools Commissioners or the Charity Commissioners. It had been said that this Bill was a retrogade measure; but if they had advanced in a wrong direction the best thing that they could do would be at once to go back. If the Act of 1869 was a bad Act, he took his full share of the responsibility of its passing. He might have divided the House against it, but he did not, and he was proud that he had not done so. But, though the Act of 1869 was one of the best Acts the late Government had passed, one of its main features was the appointment of Commissioners who were practically the nominees of the Government that appointed them. It had been broadly stated in the House that the way in which the Commissioners had carried out the Act was a mistake, and wherever one went through the country grumblings were heard against them. He was not at all sure that the way in which they set about their work was satisfactory. It was said that England was
 1665 1666
 MR. SALT  said, he was not so anxious to find fault with the past as to consider their prospects for the future. The noble Lord had told them there were about 800 endowed schools which would have to come under the operation of the Commissioners, that in regard to only 74 of them had new schemes been passed, and that in regard to 66 schemes had been published, leaving absolutely untouched 660 schools, possessing endowments to the value of £210,000. That was all that had been accomplished in five years, and now that they were about to transfer the work of the Endowed School Commissioners to the Charity Commissioners, he wished to ask, whether, at the end of another five years, they were to reconsider that question, with new religious difficulties and with a fresh series of troubles such as from various circumstances had grown up in every part of the country; or were they now to endeavour, if possible, to bring their
 1682 1683
 MR. W. E. FORSTER , in rising to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, he could assure his noble Friend that it was with sincere regret he found himself opposed to him on that occasion. He was well aware of the difficulty of that question, and that it did not merely apply to elementary education, but equally to the important matter of endowed schools, on which depended, as far as Parliament had to do with it, the secondary education of the country. He had hoped his noble Friend would, quite independently of party, have claimed the support of both sides of the House for a step forward in that matter. But he was compelled
 1645 1646 onus probandi onus probandi 1647 1648 De profundis 1649 "and that they, the Governors, with the advice of the Bishop of the diocese there for the time being, and from time to time, may make and have power to make fit and wholesome statutes and ordinances concerning and touching the order, government, and direction of the pedagogue and sub-pedagogue and scholars of the aforesaid school for the time being." 1650 1651 1652 1653 1654 "That this Board desires to record its disapproval of the Endowed Schools Acts Amendment Bill, so far as it transfers all the powers of the Endowed Schools Commission to the Charity Commission, and tends to place the future reorganization of Endowed Schools on a sectarian, instead of on a national, basis." 1655 1656
 MR. WELBY  asked the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, Whether his attention has been called to the death in Chelsea, through being cut away from a balloon, of one De Groof, known as the "Flying Man;" and, whether he will take steps effectually to prevent such dangerous exhibitions for the future?
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  said, it was precisely because the measure now before the House would reverse the policy of the late Administration, to some extent, that he not only thanked Her Majesty's Government for its introduction, but for that very reason he was prepared to give the Bill his most cordial and earnest support. In his opinion, the previous Ministry had taken away—almost entirely without justification—rights which he considered to be the inalienable inheritance of the poor, and had transferred them without hesitation to, and in favour of, children of that middle class which could very well afford to pay for their education. Again, he was one of those who considered it right and necessary, wherever it was possible, strictly and reverently to respect the will of the founder. Moreover, he thought that no Government ought needlessly to interfere with, much less to take upon itself to remake, the will of such founder. He might be told—indeed, he had heard it more than once—that the new hoard schools under the Elementary Education
 1659 1660 1661 1662 1663
 MR. A. H. BROWN  said, he thought some anomalous results would follow the appointment of the Charity Commissioners. For instance, appeals would be made to the noble Lord himself, who would thus become a Judge in his own cause, as he was a Charity Commissioner as well as Vice President of the Council. Then, Parliament had no guarantee that the rules which the Commissioners were empowered to make would be fair ones, and upon these rules, of course, a very great deal depended. He did not think three tried and experienced men should be set aside to make room for two inexperienced men. In his opinion, the expectation of the noble Lord that the business would be got through in five years would not be fulfilled. In regard to the proposal that the schools should be of a sectarian character, they were reversing the policy which had been followed since 1869. This was an aggression on the part of the Established Church, which wanted to take for herself what ought to belong to the public. He strongly objected to the passing of the Bill.
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  denied that the springs of charity were dried up, and said that on any comparison with the past it must be remembered that land was of far less value formerly than it was now; and if the real facts could be ascertained it would be found that charity was dried up rather by the abuses the Commissioners were appointed to correct, and that the stream of charity flowed more freely again when the administration of endowments was placed in abler hands. The Bill consisted of two very distinct parts. The first removed the Endowed Schools Commissioners and placed the Charity Commissioners to reign in their stead; and the second diminished the toleration now existing, and replaced it by sectarianism. Her Majesty's Government, in conferring their powers on the Charity Commissioners, recognized the necessity of some such authority to organize and reform our Endowed Schools. Then, surely a very strong case must be made out before it could be considered wise to disorganize the present machinery and stop the Commissioners in their work? They had not only acquired great experience, but collected much information. Besides the schemes actually arranged, there were many others more or less completed. All this work would be rendered useless, or to a great extent thrown away, by the present Bill. He did not deny that the Commissioners might have made mistakes; but he believed that neither the Charity Commissioners nor any other body of men could fail to make mistakes. It had been said that the Commissioners had made themselves unpopular throughout the country. But to a certain extent
 1667 1668 1669
 VISCOUNT SANDON , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, expressed his regret that it should be brought forward at so late a period of the Session, adding that the measure had been long expected; but he would remind the House that the Endowed Schools Commission Act Amendment Bill and the Elementary Education Act Amendment Bill, both similar measures of great importance, were brought forward by the late Government last Session at a still later period, and as, by the Act of last Session, the Endowed Schools Commission and its powers, unless renewed, would altogether expire on the 31st of December in this year, the Government was obliged to bring forward a measure even at this late period: for the House would well understand that the Government could not consent to allow this great work to drop, as in common with the party with which they acted they had been most anxious for the increased usefulness and wise reform of our great educational endowments in the interests of all classes of the community. In "another place" too, a very definite notice had been given last Session that an amending Act would this year be proposed. Before he proceeded to criticize, as he was afraid he would find it to be his duty to do, the proceedings of the three distinguished individuals who constituted the Endowed Schools Commission, he wished to observe that nobody was more alive than he was to the ability, unwearied energy, and self-devotion which they had exhibited. Indeed, it would be difficult to find any three gentlemen whose personal character stood higher, and it was on their acts in their capacity as Commissioners solely that he desired to comment. He would do all in his power to rob his remarks of anything like personal blame, which he was the last person to intend, and he should therefore speak of them in the impersonal character of the Commission. It would be well to look back for a moment on some circumstances connected with the Endowed Schools Inquiry Commission of 1866, which was
 1626 1627 "So far as regarded the reorganization of the schools, they proposed that the Bill should be a temporary Bill. They asked for power for three or four years, to make fresh trust-deeds for endowed schools, which should not become law if objected to by either House of Parliament." [3  Hansard "Now I wish to assure them (the good schools) and the House that it is not for the good schools that the Bill is framed. We cannot, of course, exempt such schools by name, for in that case there would be no end to endeavours to obtain it; but schools which are well managed need fear nothing from the operation of a Bill which is to introduce good management."—[ Ibid "We must be provided with power to give the schools, in many cases, fresh governing bodies." [ Ibid "A temporary Bill for the reform and re-organization of endowed schools, and when it has been completed—in perhaps, about four or five years—we shall be in a very different position from what we are now, and we shall know what powers are necessary."—[ Ibid 1628 "No doubt there are some schools that are working extremely well, and which could not probably be advantageously interfered with."—[3  Hansard "It will be the duty of the Commissioners to pay every respect to the claims of the particular localities in which these charities exist."—[ Ibid "The Act of 1869 established the principle that the endowed schools belonged to the nation, and not to the Established Church." 1629 1630 "People were very much dissatisfied with the body of the Commissioners; in fact, they had no confidence in them at all."—[3  Hansard "The House, before re-granting those considerable powers, would naturally expect an account of the manner in which they had been exercised."—[ Ibid "The published opinions of some of the Commissioners on the subject of endowments have caused alarm, and have in some cases seriously impeded the harmonious action which might otherwise have been secured between them and the Governing Bodies of the charities with which they have had to deal." "Their own experience as they state in attempting to work the Act has convinced them that the country was hardly prepared for its reception, and it is to be regretted that some of the changes proposed by them, especially in the case of certain good schools, should have been such as to hinder the hearty co-operation of those who had heretofore worked to render them efficient." 1631 "It must, however, be acknowledged that much sound and good work has been done. Many schools which had fallen into decay have already received new life and become valuable and prosperous institutions; while the governors of other schools act with energy in the exercise of the new powers given by the schemes, and are diligently making such preparations as are necessary preliminaries to educational work on an enlarged scale. Nor are instances wanting where the governors of endowed schools, convinced that reforms are urgently required, have themselves requested the Commissioners to frame schemes at the earliest date." "There is reason to hope that the Commissioners, acting under more clearly defined powers, will provide the means of restoring the grammar schools to their ancient usefulness, and will thus at once carry out, in an effective manner, the real intentions of the donors, and furnish the best security for the permanence of their foundations," (Carried by 10 to 8.) 1632 "All the changes which the Bill makes are in a direction which is the opposite of that in which we look."—[3  Hansard "The Bill did nothing to mitigate the injustice complained of on the part of the Dissenters," and "he preferred that the Commission should be suspended for a time, rather than that it should be continued in its present mutilated form."—[ Ibid 1633 1634 1635 1636 1637 1638 1639 1640 "I think Clause 19 leaves out an immense number of endowments, which, according to any ordinary rules, must be considered to belong to the Church of England, and it is rather an awkward clause to work." "I conceive this section to be untenable as it stands, on any ground of sound reason. Previous authorities spoke  a priori "It seems to me that one of two things ought to be done; either the will of the founder and its observance must be respected by us, without our being tied down to such minute precision as is now to be found in the section; either we must be allowed to revert to the ancient practice of Chancery, and satisfy ourselves by the best evidence we can find as to what the founder really wished and meant, or we must be directed to extend the preamble of the Act to all cases whatsoever, … and practically subject to a limit of time to interpret the wills of the founders, as intending simply the general extension of a liberal education. My conviction is in favour of the latter view." 1641 "If Parliament should choose to lay down anything intelligible and specific for the purpose of defining what schools were Church schools, for the guidance of the Commissioners, he believed they would have no objection to act on it; but without some such further definition he did not know what a Church school was." [3  Hansard "The illustrations which have been given are enough to show that the operation of Section 19 is, as has been intimated, arbitrary and inconsistent; recognizing, indeed, the principle of a distinction between denominational and undenominational schools, but hardly giving effect to it in an adequate or satisfactory way." 1642 1643 1644
 VISCOUNT SANDON : Sir, the Education Department does not issue instructions to officers of school boards. The
 1624
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether, after further inquiry, he is in a position to maintain his statement that it is not the case that not only did the rank of substantive Major exist in the regiments of Artillery of the several Indian Presidencies in 1824, but that it was continued up to 1858–9, during which period there was no such rank as 1st Captain; whether Clause 2 of Royal Warrant, 5th July 1872, promoting 1st Captains of Artillery to majorities, does not state that such promotion was made because it was "expedient;" and Clauses 9 and 11 of the Warrant distinctly assert that the regulations contained
 2
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, the question raised by the Motion was totally different from that which had preceded it. It involved the introduction of a precedent, which ought not to be allowed to pass without note or comment. During the 22 years that he had been a Member of that House no such proposal had ever been made. There was one solitary exception, but of so peculiar a character that it hardly deserved to be called a precedent. A similar proposal had been made, but it was on the 6th of August, when hon. Members urgently desiring to bring the Session to a close, assented to the proposal, in order that a certain measure might be passed through its various stages as quickly as possible. He had no sort of sympathy with the practices which had given occasion to the present Bill, but he was opposed to anything like straining the Forms of the House in favour of a measure which some persons looked upon as of a judicial, and still more of a penal nature. It was very undesirable to create martyrs, especially that kind of martyrdom now prevalent in this country, which might be described as picturesque rather than painful, since the subjects of it knew that nothing would happen to them but an expression of public sympathy on their behalf. He fully admitted that the Bill was of great importance, but he questioned whether it was one of such pressing necessity as to justify them in straining the Forms of the House.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he merely desired to show that the measure was one which could be postponed till next Session, it being one that would not be materially damaged by delay. If it were a Bill brought forward under very urgent circumstances—for the suspension of the Bank Charter Act, or for any matter of imperative necessity—the case would be very different. He believed that when it was thoroughly understood in the country that the House was in earnest in this matter, the irregular practices complained of would gradually die away.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, there was one principle which he believed was dear to the hearts of all Englishmen in every possible phase of life; that there was one maxim which was written in the hearts of all Englishmen and which guided them through life, and that maxim was obedience to the law. Whether it was the Queen upon the Throne, or the pauper in a workhouse, or the Members of the other House or that House of Parliament, or any other rank of life, there was no exception to the rule that every person of every class and condition was bound to obey the law. In that respect, so far as he was aware, there was no "benefit of clergy."
 14 15 "As regards these ritual matters, what we say is this—that while the Church, speaking by her formularies and by her confessions, is on our side, or rather we on hers, the State, speaking by the late judgment of the Judicial Committee, is against us." And this was the painful part of the letter. "And that in these matters our duty of obedience is to the Church at whose altars we serve." 16 "He was quite prepared to accept the proposition that there was an urgent ease for legislation in connection with this matter." 17 "He had, however, to take exception to the hon. Gentleman's assumption that this was a question which could only be dealt with by Government, and also to his strong recommendation to the Government to take it up." "It would be improper for the Government to hold out an expectation that it could deal with the question consistently with the other demands upon its time. He therefore hoped the hon. Gentleman would not think that he (Mr. Gladstone) was practising the old trick of retorting upon him if he recommended him to bring forward a measure himself."—[3  Hansard 18 "This Bill will, if it passes, be merely a measure for shortening and simplifying to a certain extent the legal procedure in a certain class of cases now cognizable under the present cumbrous procedure of the Ecclesiastical Courts. It creates no new offence, but is founded solely upon the ecclesiastical law as now contained in the Prayer-Book, rubrics, and canons agreed to by the Church above 200 years ago. How, therefore, any part of the substance of Church discipline, or of the rights of the clergy can be affected by the proposed legislation is not to me apparent, unless, indeed, it is contended that the clergy have a vested interest in the continuance of technical and formal impediments to the execution of the laws of the Church." 19 20 21 22
 MR. HUBBARD (Buckinghamshire)  said, as a Churchman and a Conservative, he wished to vote for the spirit of the Bill, but he wished to put a most solemn question to the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder of the City of London, whether as a Churchman and a Conservative he was not equally bound by part of an Act of Parliament, and the Prayer Book of the Church of England, while voting for the Bill as regarded infractions of the law which were certain, to assert that the House awaited the review of Convocation of those rubrics where the law was uncertain? The Prayer Book was itself the revision of an old Prayer Book submitted to Convocation, reviewed and altered by Convocation, and finally ratified by Parliament. He did hope that some such assertion of the Parliamentary law as regarded the rubrics would prevent the pain of a division on a Bill, the principles of which were approved by all loyal members of the Reformed Church of England.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, as this is the third series of long categorical questions which I have had both to read as well as answer, it is not to be wondered at if my Answers have not been as clear as I could wish. The rank of substantive Major did exist in the regiments of Artillery in the several Indian Presidencies in 1824, and continued to do so until 1858–9, when it was abolished, and the Majors were made Lieutenant-Colonels. What I said the other day—namely, "that Majors were
 3
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  also considered that the Motion was quite unnecessary. He had supported the proposal for the adjournment of the debate the other evening in order that a fair opportunity might be afforded to discuss the Bill, and not that any unfair advantage should be taken to obtain the decision of the House.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he regretted that the hon. Member who had just sat down should have turned aside from the question before the House to denounce a certain party in the Church. That was not the point under discussion, they had merely to deal with the Bill, and he hoped the House would continue to do so calmly and dispassionately. The debate in this House had, up to the present, reflected great credit upon it by the moderation of its tone throughout. Nothing could have been better than the manner in which his right hon. Friend the Member for Southampton had introduced the Bill to the House, and had this course been originally adopted elsewhere the position of the Bill itself might have been very different from what it now was in the eyes of the clergy. It was not the Bill as it now stood which had caused so much anxiety and searching of heart to a large portion of the clergy, but the original proposal made by the highest authority in the Church, one which he regretted had ever been made, and still more the manner in which it had been made. An attempt was made to associate the High Church party in the Church with the extreme Ritualists as they were called—for his part, he must repudiate any such connection, and he must say with reference to the High Church clergy that the great mass of them were loyally endeavouring to carry on the public worship of the Church within the prescribed rules of Ritual allowed by the rubrics, and that they had no more sympathy with the extreme Ritualistic party than had the Low Church party with the extreme Calvinistic doctrines which were preached by those on the other side. As a moderate High Churchman, and one who wished that the services of the Church should be carried
 34 35 36 37 "And forasmuch as nothing can be so plainly set forth, but doubts may arise in the use and practice of the same; to appease all such diversity (if any arise) and for the resolution of all doubts, concerning the manner how to understand, do, and execute, the things contained in this Book; the parties that so doubt, or diversely take anything, shall alway resort to the Bishop of the Diocese, who by his discretion shall take order for the quieting and appeasing of the same; so that the same order be not contrary to anything contained in this Book." 38
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that as one who had several Notices relating to Amendments in the Bill on the Paper, he must protest against the imputation which was conveyed in the language of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz), that hon. Members wished to oppose the Bill factiously. He had no intention of discussing every line of the measure, though he might have something to say on every clause, as he hoped to see that each would be fully considered, supposing the Bill got into Committee. He had observed before, and he now repeated the statement, that there was no time to deal with the Bill satisfactorily, and that it was inopportune; but if the House would insist on going on with it, he should not be prevented from endeavouring to make it as little bad a measure as possible. He should be wanting in proper respect to his Diocesan, the Archbishop of Canterbury, if he did not take that course, and, therefore, undeterred by what had fallen from the hon. Member for Birmingham, he would, whether it was the 5th or the 12th of August, whether it was hot or cold, go through the Bill as steadily and quietly in Committee as if it were February or March. He repudiated, at the same time, anything like factious opposition, and he could not sit down without expressing the gratification with which he had heard from the mouth of the hon. Member for Birmingham the announcement that one Archbishop was worth all the women of England.
 MR. DISRAELI , in moving—
 "That the Standing Orders respecting the sittings of the House on Wednesdays be suspended, this day, until the Adjourned Debate on the Public Worship Regulation Bill shall have been disposed of,"
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the Bill that is now before the House has received very different descriptions in the course of this debate. It has been described as a very small measure, merely a measure of procedure, by one hon. Gentleman; while, on the other hand, the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Bradford (Mr. Forster), who spoke early in to-day's debate, said it was by far the most important measure that has been before Parliament for years, and he re-echoed the opinion which had been expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, that a Bill referring to matters of such importance should have been brought forward by Her Majesty's Government. But if measures of this character ought to be brought forward by the Government of the day, I might ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, why, in 1872, he did not act upon that principle? From the passing of the Church Discipline Act until the present time, a variety of such measures have been introduced to the notice of Parliament, and in no instance I can recall have they been brought forward by the Government. Yet during that period the right hon. Gentleman must have exercised a considerable influence over the conduct of affairs, for during the whole of that time the country has been governed by a party formed from the Liberal ranks. Again, in 1872, my right hon. Friend the present Secretary of State for the Home Department called the attention of the House to this very subject in a Bill which was in substance identical, and in treatment very similar, to the Bill before the House. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, who was then Prime Minister, sympathized with the subject of the Bill, and encouraged by his praise the introduction of it by my right hon. Friend; but he did not give it any more substantial assistance than that, and certainly he did not consider that it was the duty of the Government of the day to come forward and undertake the conduct of the measure. Nor am I inclined in any way to blame the right hon. Gentleman for the course which he adopted. I am by no means sure that it is the wisest policy
 77 party 78 79 80 81 82
 MR. DISRAELI : Although the Motion which I have made, Sir, has to a certain degree been based upon a precedent—and when there are precedents it is generally advantageous to be guided by them—yet I should not have hesitated under the present circumstances, and with the consent of the House, to make a precedent myself if requisite. I am perfectly willing, at the same time, to admit that Motions of this kind should not be made unless there is a very concurrent sympathy on both sides of the House in favour of them. On the present occasion I believe there is that sympathy, a large majority of both sides of the House being, as I understand, in favour of the course I have proposed. It has been suggested by the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) that be fore agreeing to the Motion the House ought to receive from Government a declaration of their sentiments with regard to the Public Worship Bill. Now, the proper time for the Government, or the various Members of the Government, to give their opinion is during the discussion upon the second reading, and I have no doubt that as the debate proceeds their views will be amply expressed. Some hon. Gentlemen have treated this Motion of mine as if it were a slur upon the honour of certain Members of this House. I have only one object in making the Motion. I consider that, after what has occurred, I am bound to secure to the right hon. Gentleman who introduced the Public Worship Bill an opportunity of obtaining the opinion of the House upon the second reading. Therefore, whether the debate finishes to-day or not, with that conviction on the part of the Government that they are bound to obtain that result, I must find another day, in
 13
 MR. DISRAELI  in rising to move, "That the Orders of the Day, this day, be postponed until after the Order for the Adjourned Debate on the Second Reading of the Public Worship Regulation Bill," said, that in taking that course, he had followed a precedent which had been set by the late Government, acting under advice, in 1872, and which precedent he thought the present state of Public Business justified him in adopting. It might seem to some hon. Gentlemen, that the Motion to which he had asked the House to assent was an innovation and an interference with the privileges of private Members; but there could be no one who occupied the office which he had the honour to hold, who would be more reluctant to invade those privileges. He might, however, observe that the Bill in favour of which he was making the present Motion was one which had been introduced to the House by a private Member. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the Resolution.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he was surprised to hear it laid down that it was too late in the Session to discuss the Bill properly; because, if that were the case,
 6
 MR. HORSMAN  again warned the House, as he had done on a former occasion, against making a precedent encroaching on the lights of a minority; the rights of a minority being the great feature of a constitutional, as distinguished from a despotic, Government. The rights of a minority were as sacred as those of the majority. The question they had to consider was, whether they were justified in suspending Standing Orders for the express purpose of limiting the speeches of the minority, for it was nothing more nor less than that? The right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Hardy) got up the other night and told the Prime Minister there was an objection to "Wednesday, because then the opponents of the Bill would have an opportunity of talking it out, and the answer of the Government to that was—" Oh, but we are going to suspend the Standing Orders for that day." He agreed with the hon. Gentleman
 10
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  explained that what he meant to say was, not that any factious opposition would be attempted for the mere purpose of delay, but that every clause and every line ought to be discussed as fully as if the Bill had been introduced earlier in the Session.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he did not wish to raise any factious opposition to the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. He had no doubt the right hon. Gentleman had adopted that course after due consideration, and in accordance with what he believed to be the general wish of the House. At the same time, he begged to enter a protest against the course about to be adopted, especially with regard to a measure which was not a Government measure. If hon. Members looked at the Orders of the Day, they would find down, in the name of a private Member, the Women's Disabilities Removal Bill, in favour of which Petitions signed by upwards of 400,000 had been presented. He was sure the advocates of that measure were anxious to ascertain the opinion of a new Parliament upon it, and it was rather hard that a measure, in favour of which so many people had petitioned, should not have been selected by the Government for the course of proceeding adopted now, rather than one which came before the House for the first time, and had as yet received so much less a share of public attention. He saw no good reason why that measure should be postponed till after the discussion on the Public Worship Bill; but he would not oppose the Motion. The right hon. Gentleman opposite, however, must understand that, in taking advantage of the assistance offered by the Government to carry the Bill through, he must expect on the part of the minority, that every clause and every line of the Bill would be discussed as fully as if it had been introduced at an earlier period of the Session. ["Oh, oh!"] With great respect to the hon. Gentlemen who constituted the majority, he must repeat that the minority would oppose the Bill, because they thought it was of too great importance to be discussed at that period of the Session; and the large number of persons affected by it, who had not been consulted before its introduction would not be satisfied unless it received the fullest consideration at the hands of the House.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he wished to express briefly, but clearly and candidly, the motives which induced him to vote for the second reading of this Bill. He was aware that no arguments were required to secure the passing of the measure by a large and possibly by an overwhelming majority of that House; still, he thought that the time had not been lost in continuing the debate over a second day, seeing that thereby hon. Members had been enabled to state their views upon the question. That being a debate on a great Parliamentary change, he thought he was justified in examining the arguments, and in foreshadowing the results for which they must be prepared. He also ventured to think that much advantage would arise from the fact of those who took a deep interest in the Bill outside
 68 69 70 "A turning point," he said, "has been reached in the Church of England. It is a turning-point, not because the measure now before Parliament does, in fact, revolutionize the position of the whole clergy of the Church of England by sweeping away all the Diocesan Courts in the teeth of the recommendations of Convocation. It is a turning point, not because it touches a large and increasing body of laity of all ranks and conditions throughout the length and breadth of the land. It is not even a turning point, because those whom the measure is meant to crush are many of them bound to us by the strongest ties of friendship and respect. Not on all these accounts, important as they are, is it a decisive moment in the history of the Church of England, but because, apart from all other considerations which may be urged against this unhappy and ill-advised measure, it is a deliberate attempt to govern the Church of England by Act of Parliament, instead of by her Synods, and to force upon the clergy, by means of a Bill of Pains and Penalties, the acceptance of this position—namely, that the interpretations put upon the Church's Publics by the Civil tribunals are necessarily to be taken as equivalent to the law of the Church itself." 71 72 "And here is to be noted, that such Ornaments of the Church, and of the Ministers thereof at all Times of their Ministration, shall be retained, and be in use, as were in this Church of  England "Nevertheless, for the comforting' of such a delight in music, it may be permitted that in the beginning, or in the end of the common prayers, either at morning or evening, there may be sung an hymn or such like song to the praise of Almighty God in the best sort of melody or music that may conveniently be used, having respect that the sentence of hymn may be understanded and perceived." 73 74 75
 MR. SANDFORD  thought the time had arrived when they should ask the precise position which the Government took up in reference to the Public Worship Regulation Bill. Was the union between the learned Recorder and the Government an avowed union, or was it a morganatic alliance? If the latter, it seemed to him there was more favour shown for the offspring of the left hand than for the offspring of the right. He was, one of those who desired to see the Bill passed, and he thought all the difficulties to its progress would be removed if the Prime Minister would rise in his place and say that the Government accepted the full responsibility of the measure.
 MR. FAWCETT  maintained that nothing but a matter of necessity would justify the Suspension of the Standing-Orders at that period of the Session. While, for his own part, he meant to vote against the Bill, he would certainly do nothing to prevent its passing by factious opposition. In order that the House might be in a position to decide upon the present Motion, it was essential that there should be a distinct, specific, and unequivocal intimation of the intentions of the Government with regard to the Public Worship Bill. If Government declared that they wanted the Bill to pass, the proposal to suspend the Standing Orders would be intelligible. If, on the other hand, they were going to be satisfied with a triumph over the right hon. Member for Greenwich, and were then going to allow the Bill to be quashed, this Wednesday would have been taken from private Members for no practical purpose, in so far, at all events, as the Bill itself was concerned. Let Government declare that it was their intention to do all in their power to pass the Bill this Session, and not merely to defeat the Resolutions of the right hon. Member for Greenwich, and then there would be a justification of the suspension of the Standing Orders.
 MR. RAIKES  said, it could not be sufficiently insisted upon that the measure under discussion was not a Bill dealing with doctrine, or even with law, but one simply intended for the amendment of a faulty system of ecclesiastical procedure, and was not intended to revolutionize the Church, or to exclude from its pale any particular party in the Church. In short, the Bill would have the effect of amending the Church Discipline Act of 1840, and although in some of its details the measure was capable of improvement, he could only regard it as a practical improvement upon the existing law. The title, however, had led to much misapprehension, and he would suggest that it should be so amended as to correspond with the contents of the Bill. The unsatisfactory feature of the Bill were to be found chiefly in the clauses which dealt with the officers of the Consistory Courts, to whom but scant justice was meted out. In treating of the cause which had tended to bring those Courts into disrepute, he thought it was too much, perhaps, to expect a great deal from the Bishops, who, in appointing their Chancellors, were not always careful to select the men best qualified to give advice upon matters of law. The exemption of private chapels from the operation of the Bill was, in his view, a fault not unlikely to lead to complication and difficulty. A good deal had been said as to the propriety of postponing the measure until the revision of the rubrics was completed, and on this point he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman in charge of the Bill would in Committee assent to the insertion of a provision, postponing its coming into force during, say, six months,
 76
 MR. RICHARD : Sir, some may perhaps think it hardly becoming for a Nonconformist to interpose in a discussion which relates to matters connected with the internal economy and administration of the Church of England. But we must remember that in the eye of the law, we are all members of the Church of England, whether we wish it or not. According to the memorable dictum of Hooker—
 "There is not any man of the Church of England but the same man is also a member of the Commonwealth; nor any member of the Commonwealth, who is not also of the Church of England." 57 58 The Times 59 "There Ceremony leads her Ingots forth, Prepared to fight for shadows of no worth; As soldiers watch the signal of command, They learn to how, to kneel, to sit, to stand: Happy to fill religion's vacant place With hollow form, and gesture and grimace." "When we find the "Catholic revival," so called asserted as the antithesis and antidote to the Reformation, which is deplored as a misfortune, if not a sin; when its work is admitted, and, indeed, avowed to he to undo what was then done; when Holy Scripture is disparaged as a rule of faith, unless as supplemented and explained by "Catholic teaching," and the Thirty-nine Articles are complained of as an unfair burden, put aside as obsolete, or interpreted in a sense which, if their words can be wrested into bearing, is undoubtedly not that which they were intended to bear; when the doctrines of those who drew them up are disclaimed as un-Catholic, and almost condemned as heretical; when language is used, popularly and without qualification, on the subject of the Holy Eucharist, which, whether capable or not of being absolved, under qualification, of contradiction to our formularies, is not only declared by Protestants but claimed by Romanists to be identical with transubstantiation; when seven Sacraments are again taught, and confession with absolution is enjoined, not as an occasional remedy for exceptional doubts and sorrows, but as the ordinary rule of a holy life and needful preparation for holy communion; when prayers for the dead are recommended, and purgatory more than hinted at; when the  cultus 60 "The clergy of the Established Church have taken out of the hands of the Catholic clergy the labour of contending for the doctrines of transubstantiation and invocation of saints." 61 62 63
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  failed to appreciate the difference; but, at any rate, he protested against his proposed line of proceeding, which was calculated to obstruct the passage of the Bill. Those behind the front Opposition bench could not be satisfied with such a course.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  greatly regretted the expressions which had fallen from his right hon. Friend below him. The position which the right hon. Gentleman occupied on the front Opposition bench lent to what he said a greater importance than attached to what fell from hon. Members generally, and he rose for the purpose of protesting against the use of such language, and against its being supposed that the right hon. Gentleman represented in any way the sentiments of himself, or, he believed, of the great majority of those who sat on the Opposition side of the House. When the right hon. Gentleman announced that he would oppose every clause and every line of the Bill—
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN , who spoke amid considerable interruption, said, he
 83 Laughter 84
 MR. DODSON  never understood that the rule of suspending Business at a quarter to 6 on Wednesdays had been established in order to secure to minorities the right to talk a measure out. Because it would come to this—that on one day of the week the minority were to have the constitutional right of defeating a measure by talking against time, and upon the remaining five days they were not to possess that right. The Rule for closing debates at a quarter to 6 on Wednesdays was adopted for the convenience of the House, and to save the health and labour of hon. Members. Before that rule was adopted, the House used to meet on Wednesday evenings just as on other days, and then there was no Rule as to stopping the debate at any particular hour. But there was no reason why these Standing Orders should not give way when such a course suited the House. Considering the time of the Session and the great interest felt in the Public Worship Bill, he thought that an occasion when there might very properly be a departure from the ordinary course of proceeding. He should therefore support the Motion.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  earnestly appealed to the Prime Minister to reconsider the course he had decided to take on the present occasion, though he (Mr. Talbot)
 9
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, he was glad to follow the right hon. Gentleman, whoso speeches always commanded the attention and respect of the House. He felt rather in an uncomfortable position on the question, but as an opponent of the Bill in its present shape, he would endeavour to avoid any bitterness which might add to the difficulties of the controversy. He wished to guard himself against any suspicion of his being a supporter of the extreme party in the Church of England. He had never been attached to extreme doctrines or extreme practices. All he had endeavoured to do was to support the Church in its devotion to its Ritual, doctrine, and formularies—a devotion to which the Homo Secretary had that day given expression in such eloquent terms. This was a measure
 45 "I am ready to do what lies in my power to aid, in its passage through this House, any Bill which will effect the object I have in view—that is, which will contribute towards the maintenance in unimpaired vigour in this country of those primitive, Scriptural, truly Catholic and therefore Protestant principles which regulated the Reformation of the English Church."—[3  Hansard 46 47 48 gravamen "Desperate people do bold things; therefore I venture to send you my  gravamen gravamen "That no attention was paid to the recommendations respecting the interpretation of the word 'parishioner,' the omission of the rural dean from the list of accusers, and the condition of the three parishioners being communicants; and that they consider these provisions of the Bill, with others, fraught with considerable danger to the peace and efficiency of the Church." "We want, beyond question, greater promptness and expedition, and a large saving of expense in the administration of ecclesiastical law in all its branches. But we want also a precise definition of that law, which is on important points uncertain. We desire that the authority of the Bishop should not be in any degree impaired. We desire that the Convocations of both Provinces should have time to consider and determine on the nature and amount of alteration required to meet the present circumstances of the Church. We desire that the great body of the clergy, whose minds are moved slowly, should have time to consider a Bill which has been so largely altered since its birth, and in its present condition is but a few weeks old. All these considerations seem to converge to one conclusion—that the Bill had better wait." 49 "The controversy which now agitates the Church is not a new one. Though distinguished by some peculiar features, yet at the bottom it is nothing more than a revival—or, as we may choose to call it, a continuation—of one which is as old as the first foundation of our Church: it represents a contrast of opinions, views, and feeling's which has never ceased to exist within her pale, though varying in its outward demonstrations according to the shifting phases of her historical developments; sometimes apparently dormant and inactive, at others breaking out, as, now, in passionate controversy, and at some unhappy epochs—such as we hope may never again be witnessed—venting itself in persecution, in violent exclusion, and formal rupture. It is not only an undisputable fact that such an opposition or divergency always has existed within the Church, but it seems likewise to be a necessary result of her constitution and character. If the position which she has taken up, as a Reformed Church, is correctly described as a mean between two extremes, it appears to be an inevitable consequence—so long as human nature continues what it is—that some of her members should incline towards one extreme, others towards its opposite, though all sincerely attached to her doctrine and fellowship. If we are not ashamed of this character of moderation which distinguishes her; if, on the contrary,
 50 fide
 MR. WALTER  said, it had been obvious to every hon. Member that the important debate on which the House had now entered could not long be conducted on the smooth and easy lines laid down by his right hon. and learned Friend the Recorder, when, in a speech characterized by much moderation, he introduced the Bill. No doubt, the Bill related mainly to a question of procedure. In its terms it was a very short and simple measure; but the House and the country knew equally well that the question at issue was far more than one of procedure, and that on the fate of the Bill, and on the sentiments its discussion might evoke throughout the country, might depend the future of the Established Church of this land. On its fate, at all events, must depend the question whether the services of the Church should be performed in harmony
 23 24 25 "Various customs hare grown up in accordance with the feelings and usages of the people; and, whether the practices that have so grown up are, or are not, in accordance with the law, I say they ought not to he rashly and rudely rooted out."—[3  Hansard 26 27 28 29 30 Four Cardinal Virtues "Consider how much has yet to be done ere we stabilitate our conquests over Protestantism, or, still more, ere we re-Catholicize the Church of England. How much have we to do, to the doing of which it is, alas certain that we shall have to act upon the theory, that the authority of Bishops is limitable. For instance, we have to liberate the Church from the tyranny of the State; we have to secure the freedom of the election of Bishops; we have to abolish secular judgments in the Ecclesiastical Courts of the Establishment; we have, again, to make confession the ordinary custom of the masses, and to teach them to use Eucharistic Worship; we have to establish our claims to Catholic ritual in its highest form; we have to restore the religious life, to say mass daily, and to practise reservation for the sick." The Church and the World "Anglicans are reproached by Protestants with their resemblance to Romans; they say a stranger entering a church where ritual is care fully attended to might easily mistake it for a Roman service. Of course, he might; the whole purpose of the great revival has been to eliminate the dreary Protestantism of the Hanoverian period and restore the glory of Catholic worship Impossible to preserve the Catholic faith except by Catholic ritual." "Segnius irritant animos demissa per aurem, Quam quæ sunt oeulis subjecta fidelibus." proprio motu 31 "It may be argued that good and vigorous preaching will fill the cravings of the imagination, and make the employment of material stimuli superfluous, if not mischievous. But good preaching is among the rarest of good things, much rarer in proportion even than good acting, because it requires a wider range of physical and mental gifts. If very good actors were common, the adventitious aid of scenery and properties would be comparatively unimportant.…. but as the great majority of actors are mere sticks, and even the chief stars are not always shining their best, managers have been constantly compelled to make gorgeous spectacle their main attraction, and a splendid transformation scene or a telling stage procession will draw crowds night after night, even in the absence of any theatrical celebrity. Hence a lesson may be learnt by all who are not too proud to learn from the stage. For it is an axiom in liturgiology that no public worship is really deserving of its name unless it be histrionic." Ecclesiastical Polity 32 33
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he could not help expressing his surprise at the announcement just made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen). If every clause and every line of a Bill of such importance were to be discussed merely for
 5
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, that the patience with which the House listened to him some nights ago indisposed him to trespass on its attention now. At the same time, it would scarcely be respectful to the House or to hon. Members who had spoken, if, having introduced the Bill, he were to disregard some things which had been said. Much that he would otherwise have wished to
 85 86 87 88 "Is the present composition of the Appellate Tribunal conformable either to reason or to the statutes of the Reformation and the spirit of the Constitution as expressed in them? " "And thus I arrive at the answer to my second question, proposed at the outset, namely, this—that the present composition of the Appellate Tribunal, with regard to causes of doctrine, is unreasonable, unconstitutional, and contrary to the spirit of the Reformation statutes." "Now, I say that the intention of the Reformation, taken generally, was to place our religions liberties on a footing analogous to that on which our civil liberties had long stood. A supremacy of power in making and administering Church Law as well as State Law was to vest in the Sovereign; but in making Church Law he was to ratify the acts of the Church herself represented in Convocation, and, if there were need of the highest civil sanctions, should have the aid of Parliament also, and in administering Church Law he was to discharge this function through the medium of Bishops and Divines, Canonists and Civilians, as her own most fully authorized, best instructed sons. But of Courts of Appeal not composed of such persons, appointed by Parliamentary majorities and assented to by the Sovereign, on the advice of Ministers whom those majorities had constrained him to accept, the Church knows nothing, and this, whether such Courts be nominally composed of her members or not, except that if they chance not to be so composed, the evils of such system, in either case intolerable, are only rendered, not perhaps more real, but only the more glaring." 89
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  said, he was not surprised to find that, although there was a difference of opinion with regard to this question, there was one point on which it seemed all were agreed, and that was that some legislation on the subject was urgently needed and absolutely necessary. He believed that the people of this country were fair-judging people, and that they had no desire to take harsh measures against anyone, as long as he fulfilled his duty; and that still less did they desire to take them against the ministers of their religion, to whom, as a rule, they were warmly and sincerely attached. But when they saw that there was, and had been for a considerable period, an unlawful deviation from long-established usages in the services of the Church; and that, however acceptable that deviation might be to some, it was much objected to and most painful to others; and when they bore in mind that that deviation was contrary to the form of worship laid down by the different Acts of Uniformity, and which they were entitled to call upon their ministers to observe in the due discharge of their public ministrations; and when they found that this form of worship had been materially and rudely altered against their will; and that they were without the power of correcting and restraining that alteration; it was no wonder, since all other authority had failed, that they should apply to Parliament, as the highest of all authorities, and ask it to pass a measure that would give them speedy, reasonable, and satisfactory redress. The Bill had been objected to on several grounds, which he would class under two different heads—first, the clerical objections involving the point that the House had no power to deal with the question without the previous sanction of Convocation, and secondly, the objection which had been taken to it both on account of what it did and also of what it omitted to do. It had been supposed most erroneously—although, to a great extent, the point had been cleared up in the course of the debate—that the Bill proposed in some way or other to touch and alter the doctrines and the Liturgy of the Church of England. But that was
 64 65 66 67
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would not detain the House with any lengthened observations. Speaking generally, that was a question on which, perhaps, he had no right to trouble them by giving any opinion, not having been brought up a member of the Church of England,
 39 40 41 42 43 44
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, his right hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard talked about October and November, and, no doubt, all would agree that it would be better to take that course, and that they would submit to any sacrifice of time,
 7
 MR. SPEAKER  pointed out that any discussion of the merits of the Bill would, on the present Motion, be premature and irregular.
 MR. MOWBRAY  agreed that the rule was established for the convenience of hon. Members rather than for the protection of the rights of the minority; but he submitted that the Motion of the Prime Minister was both unnecessary and unprecedented. It was dangerous
 11
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  thought that without suspending the Standing Orders they might trust to an honourable understanding that nothing would be done to prevent a division on the second reading that day. He was very desirous for the welfare of the Church of England, and he believed that if the question before them should be left in suspense, it would be most disastrous to the Church. He concurred with the hon. Member for Hackney in thinking that the House should get an exact statement as to the intentions of Government with respect to this Bill.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, that having recently addressed the House, although upon another measure, he had to apologize for intruding so soon upon its attention again. As he had, however, given something like a pledge last Session to deal with the very question now before the House, and as, in fact, he had during the winter before the change of Government took place, been preparing a Bill to deal with unlawful practices in our churches, which he had hoped to have laid on the Table of the House when Parliament met, he could not help saying a few words upon the present Bill. He was certain the
 51 "No form or order of common prayer, administration of sacraments, rites, or ceremonies shall be openly used in any church, chapel, or other public place other than what is prescribed and appointed to be used in and by said book." 52 "There can be no doubt that the danger you apprehend of a considerable minority both of clergy and laity among us desiring to subvert the principles of the Reformation is real.…. We feel justified in appealing to all reasonable men to consider whether the very existence of our national institutions for the maintenance of religion is not imperilled by the evils of which you complain." 53 Quomque "I behold with dismay the ghastly up-growth of one more sect—one more schism—one fresh aspect of Nonconformity; and I mourn not least of all, because I sec plainly that these medieval extravagancies are making, if they have not already made, reconciliation with our Wesleyan brethren a thing impossible. There is no telling, in fact, how fatal is this retrograde movement to the progress of real Churchman-ship throughout the length and breadth of the land. 'Ritualism'—for so disloyalty to the Church is absurdly called—is the great difficulty with a surprising number of the clergy in our large towns, especially in the Northern dioceses. The working people simply hate it. They will not listen to 'Church defence' while this ugly phantom looms before them. Hundreds are being driven by it into Dissent. 'I dare not call a Church defence meeting in this town'—writes an able and a faithful incumbent—' it would be instantly turned into an anti-Ritualistic demonstration.' Thus, the cause of Christianity itself is suffering by the extravagancies of a little handful of misguided men. They assume that their outlandish ways are 'Catholic,' whereas they are schismatical entirely—the outcome of a lawless spirit, a morbid appetite, an undisciplined will. Indecent self-assertion and undutiful disregard for lawful authority are even conspicuous notes of this new sect. It is enough that one of these 'Catholic-minded' gentlemen should be re-buked by 'his Ordinary'—whom at the most solemn moment of his life he promised that he would 'reverently obey'—for him to go off into yet more reprehensible excesses. Meanwhile, the organs of his party denounce the proposed interference in the most unmeasured language, and the vocabulary of defiance, contumely, invective, is exhausted on as many as avow themselves on the side of authority and order." 54 "Our object and desire is to restore the Church of England in her beauty and in her ritual to what she was before the Reformation." "Consider how much has yet to be done ere we stabilitate our conquest over Protestantism, or, still more, ere we re-Catholicize the Church of England We have…. to make confession the ordinary custom of the masses.…. We have to restore the religious life, to say mass daily, and to practise reservation of the Sacrament for the sick." The Church Times "We are contending, as our adversaries know full well, for the extirpation of Protestant opinions and practices, not merely within the Church itself, but throughout all England." 55 56
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I have to ask the indulgence of the House while I make a short statement with reference to the Resolutions of which I have given Notice on the Public Worship Regulation Bill, and I think it may be for the convenience of the House that I should now make it. Since I gave Notice of those Resolutions the House has passed the Second Reading of that measure. Various important Notices of a hostile character have been given; but, notwithstanding those Notices, and, indeed, with the acquiescence and concurrence of the Members who had given them, the House has thought fit to read the Bill a second time without a Division. I cannot in fairness do otherwise than accept that decision as an expression of the desire of the House that we should proceed to the consideration of the Bill in Committee without raising any of those broad questions relating to the grounds and proper limits of legislation on ecclesiastical subjects which undoubtedly are raised in the Resolutions of which I have given Notice. I have also to consider that Notice has been given of important Amendments, which would, in my view, tend greatly to the improvement of this Bill, but which are of a character such as I think need not arouse any angry controversy. On the contrary, it is possible that they will meet with general favour from the House. I think that the discussion of those Amendments would be seriously prejudiced if we were to en-
 119
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, my attention has been called by my hon. Friend the Member for Mid-Surrey (Sir Henry Peek) to the desirability of freeing Chelsea Bridge from toll. The question is a difficult one, but I hope the difficulty may not prove insuperable. I have had no communication on this subject from the Metropolitan Board of Works; but I shall be happy to consider any proposal which my hon. and gallant Friend the Chairman (Sir James Hogg) may feel himself in a position to make on this subject. With regard to the second part of the Question, if the hon. Baronet turns to the Estimates of this year he will find that I have caused provision to be made in the Vote for Royal Parks, &c., for the present year for forming and planting the empty space of ground on the west boundary of Battersea Park between the gymnasium and the West Lodge. The work is in hand as far as the formation of the ground is concerned, and the planting will be commenced in the autumn
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : It is intended to give effect to many of the recommendations of the Royal Commission next Session, and the matter of the increase in the salaries of the Judges of the Supreme Courts will be submitted for consideration.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : In answer, Sir, to the first Question of the hon. Member, I have to state that my attention has been called to the proceedings at Boston, in the matter of the Petition against the return of the then sitting Members, and to the questions submitted to the Court of Common Pleas by Mr. Justice Grove, and to the decision thereon. The second Question of the hon. Member, in the terms in which it is expressed, involves a very grave charge against the learned Judge—namely, that of having arrived at a decision in the absence of any legal evidence to support it. If it is the intention of the hon. Member to suggest such a charge, which from what he has just said I conclude it is not, I should have ventured to submit for the consideration of the House whether it is a convenient practice for the Attorney General to be called upon to express an opinion upon the propriety of a Judge's decision, in reply to a Question put by an hon. Member, and at a time when the usage of the House would
 122
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he could not give any further Answer to this question than he had given
 124
 COLONEL BERESFORD , who had a Notice on the Paper to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been called to the following Order—
 "Metropolitan Police Office, "10th July, 1874. "Police Orders. "Parliament, Houses of.—No strangers are to be admitted to view the Palace at Westminster, unless accompanied by Peers or Members of Parliament, or unless they are provided with one of the Lord Chamberlain's orders or with an order in writing from the Usher of the Black Rod for the House of Lords, or with one in writing from the Sergeant at Arms for the House of Commons. "E. Y. W. HENDERSON." 130
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he was sorry his hon. and gallant Friend had brought the subject forward that evening, because before answering the Question he wished to put himself in communication with the Lord Great Chamberlain, who was out of town, and he had not yet had an opportunity of seeing him.
 COLONEL BERESFORD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, How soon any relief will be afforded to the Mat Makers throughout the country, who are in a state of semi-starvation owing to the ruined state of the trade from the concentration of prison labour to a large extent upon their particular trade; if the present state of the Mat Making Department at Pentonville and Millbank is not such that the prison authorities are supplying the masters in the trade with Mats and Matting at a cost hardly more than the cost of the raw material; and, if those prisons are not now overstocked?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he quite agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend that it was very hard upon the mat-making trade that that particular trade had been singled out in a great number of prisons, and that so many mats should be made as practically to compete with the trade of mat-making as carried on by poor mat-makers at home. It was certainly desirable to ascertain whether some other trade could not be substituted for mat-making, and he should be glad if the Visiting Justices of gaols could see their way to some change in that respect. He was in communication with the Visiting Justices on the subject. With regard to the other part of the Question, he might state that at Millbank very few mats were made this year, because there was a considerable stock on hand at the beginning of the year. At Pentonville and Millbank steps were being taken for employing prisoners in other trades. As
 131 d d d.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that his attention had been directed to what was called "our floating population"—people employed in barges throughout the country. At the last Census, in 1871, the number of such persons was returned as 29,500, and of that number 10,576 were actually on board the barges on the day when the Census was taken. It had been found very difficult to get hold of the children belonging to those persons to send them to school. He had, however, put himself in communication with the Education Department on the matter. The London School Board were prosecuting an inquiry, and endeavouring to find some means by which the children might be reached, and therefore he thought it would be unwise to appoint a Royal Commission until the result of that inquiry was known.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  declined to enter in detail into the various matters referred to by the two hon. and learned Members who alone spoke in support of the Amendment. That Amendment, if successful, would be the most effectual means of defeating the end which his hon. and learned Friend had in view; for the result would be that while the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords would be abolished for England, it would remain for Ireland and Scotland, which would thus have a different Court of Appeal from this country. The whole of the arguments which the hon. and learned Baronet had addressed to the House had reference more to the details of the Bill than to the general question, and ought properly to be raised in Committee. The hon. and learned Baronet had referred to observations which he (the Attorney General) had made last year; but he (the Attorney General) did not then go the length of saying that the House of Lords ought to be retained as a Court of Appeal for all time, but only until it should be seen whether the Act of last year would in other respects work satisfactorily. But the opinion of Parliament, as expressed in the last Session, was not in favour of that view; and, whatever might be his own opinion upon the point, he accepted the decision of Parliament as conclusive. The only question now before them was, whether the House was prepared to give effect to the Bill which
 145 146
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was afraid after the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for the Denbigh Boroughs (Mr. Watkin Williams) would tend to confirm the vulgar belief that lawyers were not on all occasions disposed to speak the truth. The hon. and learned Member had observed that the time to speak the truth had now come.
 MR. SCLATEE-BOOTH  said, he would take care that the matter should be considered, if necessary, in "another place."
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  said, the real answer to the hon. and learned Baronet's Resolution was that it came too late. The House discussed this question very fully twelve months ago, and by a very large majority the House came to the conclusion that the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords ought to be abolished. The conclusion, he believed, was arrived at upon the ground that there were certain inherent defects in the constitution of the House of Lords which no legislation could remedy and which made that House an unsatisfactory tribunal for the hearing of appeals. The great defect in the constitution of that body had been and necessarily must be the difficulty of procuring anything like a certain attendance of Members to hear appeals. The decision of the House of Commons by a very large majority that the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords should be abolished had been endorsed by the general approbation of the country. He could say for his own profession that the decision the House arrived at last year had their almost unanimous approval. For himself, he regretted that the question of the Appellate Jurisdiction for the Three Kingdoms had not been dealt with at one and the same time, seeing that such a course would have been preferable to piecemeal legislation; but having put an end to the jurisdiction as far as England was concerned, they were bound to do the same for Scotland and Ireland.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that last year he expressed the opinion that if there was to be a Second Court of Appeal for English Appeals, the House of Lords would serve the purpose well. He did not now shrink from that opinion; but, at the same time, he opposed the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Wexford, on the ground that the time for discussing the matter had gone by. They were prevented by the action of the House of Lords itself from raising the question. He was aware it had been said that the House of Lords, being in
 149 quasi
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  opposed the Amendment, the substance of which, he said, was identical with that of a new clause of which the hon. and learned Gentleman had also given Notice. With regard to the Rules that were in course of preparation for giving effect to the Act of last Session, it was directed by the Act itself that, after having been prepared by the Judges, they should be laid before each House of Parliament within 40 days thereafter, if Parliament should be then sitting, or failing that, within 40 days after the next meeting of Parliament. All that the Act provided with regard to time was that the Rules should be ready before the 2nd of November, 1874. They had been under the consideration of the Judges, and he hoped to be able to lay them before Parliament previous to its Prorogation; but even if he were unable to do so that was no reason why their coming into operation should be retarded. The preparation of the Rules was as far, if not further, advanced at the present moment than the Act had contemplated. He could not assent to the argument that it was desirable to afford an opportunity of considering whether the legislation of last Session ought not to be repealed. The country had resolved that there ought be be a change in the system of judicature, and was, he believed, satisfied with the new arrangements. The Government desired to keep faith with Parliament in regard to the Rules, as well as in regard to the measure itself, and, as he did not believe there was any general wish to take a retrograde step in the matter, he must oppose the Amendment.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOOK  said, it appeared to him that the hon. and learned Member for Limerick was fully justified in proposing this Amendment. The Attorney General seemed to think the Rules would be issued in time even if they did not appear till the 31st of October. If that should happen, the result would be, not a fusion of Law and Equity, but the greatest possible confusion.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that so far as regarded Scotland there were Rules appended to the Bill which would regulate the matters connected with Appeals, and it was not contemplated that there would be any further Rules until there had been experience of the manner in which these Rules worked. Therefore, his hon. Friend need be under no apprehension in reference to that matter. Then in regard to England, he had just been looking into the provisions of the Bill of last Session, and he found that in the 68th section it was provided that—
 "All Rules of Court made in pursuance of this section shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament within forty days next after the same are made, if Parliament is then sitting, or if not, within forty days after the then next meeting of Parliament."
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  said, the Rules had been in his chambers for nearly a week, and he had not yet been able to form an opinion upon them. They constituted a thick volume, and were as much a part of the Act as any of its provisions. Unless a promise was given that they should be laid upon the Table at least a fortnight before the Prorogation of Parliament he should vote for the Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  denied that he had acted otherwise than with perfect openness in this matter. He certainly drew attention to the 68th clause, but in almost the same breath he stated that the only reason why the Rules were not on the Table was that this Bill was pending, and that they would be produced the moment the Act was passed. A variety of suggestions had been made as to the time when the Act should come into operation; but he believed the 1st of November was preferable to Hilary or any other Term that had been named. He agreed with what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Sir John Karslake) that a very few days would be ample time for any legal practitioner to become acquainted with the Rules. He had not got so low an opinion of either branch of the legal profession as to think that, if their attention was directed to the Rules, 48 hours would not be sufficient for understanding them.
 MR. GREGOEY  said, that as soon as the Rules were framed the learned Judge who had special charge of the matter communicated them to the Incorporated Law Society, of which he was a member; and he was glad to have the opportunity of acknowledging his courtesy and consideration in doing so. A committee of the Society was appointed to consider the Rules, and suggestions had been made by them, many of which the learned Judge had adopted, and all had received his serious attention. The Rules were brought into a workable shape, and as soon as they had been put into that shape they were again submitted to members of his profession, including himself, and to members of the Bar. He saw no advantage whatever in postponing the operation of the Act. It would be injurious both to the profession and to the public to do so. He hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Limerick would not divide the Committee on the Amendment.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the words of the Amendment as they stood might be construed to involve an additional charge on the public revenue. He thought it would be more convenient if the hon. and learned Gentleman would make some alteration, to show that it was not intended to place any additional charge upon the public revenue.
 THE CHAIRMAN  observed, that the Amendment proposed to repeal the existing law, which provided there should be only 21 Judges, and to enact that there should be 24. It was a fair construction to put on the Amendment that it would entail an additional expense by the appointment of three additional Judges; and therefore he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to insert a provision that this change should not entail any additional charge.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the first clause incorporated the Act of 1873 with this Act, and the Judges would be paid under the Act of 1873.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he must rule that he could not put the Amendment, and suggested that the Attorney General should obtain the passing of another Resolution, and have the Bill recommitted, in order to introduce a clause he himself had on the Paper and this Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that, as far as he was able, he would give the hon. and learned Member for Taunton an opportunity of moving a Resolution in a Committee of the Whole House, with regard to his proposal, in accordance with the ruling of the Chairman.
 MR. MACKINTOSH  moved, in page 5, line 1, to leave out "the Court of Session in Scotland" and insert "any court in Scotland from whence appeal now lies to the House of Lords." His object was simply to guard against the limits of appeal to the new tribunal being narrowed.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was sorry he could not accept the Amendment, but he was not aware that there was any Court in Scotland, except the Court of Session, from which appeal could be taken to the House of Lords. It seemed to be thought by his hon. Friend that there could be appeal from the Justiciary Court; but in 1781 and at subsequent times it was decided there
 164
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved, at end, to add—
 "Every Judge of the Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty division of the said High Court appointed after the passing of this Act shall, so far as the state of business in the said division will admit, share with the judges mentioned in section thirty-seven of the principal Act the duty of holding sittings for trials by jury in London and Middlesex, and under commissions of assize, oyer and terminer, and gaol delivery,"
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  said, the Irish Appeals which came to the House of Lords averaged from one to three per annum, and it would he absurd to keep up a separate Appellate Court for the hearing of so small a number of cases.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the Committee were only resuming a discussion that had occupied their attention for several hours that night.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the whole foundation of the argument of his hon. Friend was based on this fallacy—that it was intended to exclude the Scotch Judges from the High Court of Appeal. ["No!"] [Mr. M'LAREN: No. My contention is that they are not expressly included.] That was precisely what he (Mr. Cross) said. It was based on the assumption that there was an intention to exclude them, and this was a fallacy. The intention was that Scotch Judges and barristers should be members of the Court. There were provisions in the Bill that gave ample power for their appointment. He hoped there would be one, and sometimes more than one Scotch Judge in the Court, and he would not like, by agreeing to this Amendment, to seem to indicate that there should only be one. The hon. Member had said it was contrary to the Act of Union, and quoted the provision that there should be no appeal of Scotch cases to the Court of Queen's Bench, the Court of Chancery, or any like Court. But this was not a like Court. It was an Imperial Court, and all that was proposed to be clone was to transfer the appeals from one Imperial Court to another. If the hon. Member wished to be consistent, he must go further, and provide that not only should there be one Scotch Judge on the Court, but that he should be present whenever a Scotch case was tried.
 LORD FRANCIS CONYNGHAM  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of the Government to legislate, this Session, on the Report of the Royal Commission on Unseaworthy Ships?
 LORD RANDOLPH CHURCHILL  asked the President of the Local Government Board, If he is aware that the Banbury Board of Guardians passed a Resolution, on the 6th day of November, "That this Board do not in future direct prosecutions against those persons who object to have their children vaccinated;'' and, if it is true that an outbreak of small-pox took place lately in that town?
 MR. MACDONALD  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the Reports of the Inspectors of Mines will be laid upon the Table before the close of the Session; and, whether it is his intention to exact from the Inspectors their Reports at an earlier period of the Session in the future?
 MR. MACDONALD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the deplorable condition of the children belonging to boatmen and others, that may be called "our floating population," has been brought under his attention, and if he intends to recommend to Her Majesty the desirability of appointing a Royal Commission to inquire into the social habits and the educational condition of that portion of the community?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman must feel that, in attempting to arrange the course of Public Business, the circumstances with which we have to deal vary, and vary very quickly. We have already had a very important announcement made to the House to-night which must considerably affect my answer. I have every desire to give the learned Recorder all possible opportunities of proceeding with the Bill, but of course that must be considered relatively to other matters. Probably to-morrow at 7 o'clock, I shall be able to answer the right hon. Gentleman more explicitly.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY , in reply, said, it would be utterly impossible for the Government to legislate this Session upon the able and full Report which had only just been made, but that Report was receiving their most serious attention.
 MR. HOPWOOD  denied that the House of Lords, as a Court of Appeal, was a satisfactory tribunal. From first to last, it was, as a judicial Court, a fiction. Any one who wandered formerly into the House of Lords when sitting as a Court of Appeal, might see the Lord Chancellor sitting with perhaps a lay Lord here, and a Bishop there, deciding what was to be the law for all time, or until both Houses of Parliament should agree to alter it. The Lord Chancellor, it was true, had the power in certain difficult cases to call upon the Common Law Judges for their assistance; but the result was that in such cases the judgment delivered was practically not that of the House of Lords, but of the Common Law Judges, whose opinions were generally followed by the Lord Chancellor in delivering his judgment, which was miscalled that of the House of Lords. Frequently it happened that the Lord. Chancellor had been counsel in the cause brought up on appeal, and was therefore unable to preside in the House. In some instances Chancellors had sat upon appeal from their own judgments in the Court of Chancery. In some a Chancellor sitting alone had reversed the judgments of men as capable as himself, with
 153
 MR. RITCHIE  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he will state the date of the last communication received from the French Government relating to the introduction of the system of refining in bond into French sugar refineries; and, whether, seeing the great importance to English sugar refiners of the introduction of this system, Her Majesty's Government will continue to urge its speedy adoption on the French Government?
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to a letter in this day's "Times" from the Reverend T. Stanley Treanor, Rector of Achil, in reference to the destitution in that dis-
 123 "Since Christmas last, the people—I speak of the Protestant small farmers especially—have lived on Indian meal purchased on credit, and at last in many cases even credit is exhausted. Debt, starvation, or the workhouse threatens us, and until the new potatoes come in, I dread a pressure approaching in severity that of 1848;"
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  was opposed to the transference of the jurisdiction of the House of Lords, of which the country knew a great deal, to a tribunal of which it knew nothing. It had been stated that the present intermediate Courts of Appeal were in an unsatisfactory condition, but this was surely no reason for interfering with the highest Court. Moreover, why should it be proposed to extend to Scotland and Ireland a measure which had not yet come into operation in England and the probable working of which was necessarily doubtful? With regard to the delay which had occurred in placing on the Table the new Rules which had to be drawn up under the Act of last year, he quite concurred in the protest which had been made by the hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. C. E. Lewis.)
 MR. M'LAREN  moved in sub-section 3, line 19, after "appeal," to insert—
 "of whom one shall have been a judge in the Court of Session in Scotland of not less than one year's standing, or an advocate of not less than fifteen years' standing." 168 "Leave out 'Chancery' and insert 'being or having been a barrister in England or Ireland, or an advocate in Scotland respectively of not less than 15 years' standing, or a Judge of the High Court of Justice of not less than one year's standing.'" 169
 MR. M'LAREN  disclaimed any political feeling in the matter, and appealed to the Home Secretary to bring up some clause of his own.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he wished to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister upon the subject of the Public Worship Regulation Bill, of which he had given him private Notice. The right hon. Gentleman had said yesterday that it was highly desirable the Bill should pass into Law during the present Session; and therefore he wished to ask, whether the right hon. Gentleman had made any arrangements on the part of the Government with the learned Recorder so as to give assistance and facilities for the passing of the Bill, as to which there were nearly 100 Amendments on the Paper? He wished also to ask—if the right hon. Gentleman had sufficiently considered the matter—whether the Bill would after to-morrow be proceeded with early and continuously? It would be very convenient to many hon. Members to know what course it was intended to take, as it would enable them to make their arrangements accordingly.
 MR. SYNAN  said, the competence of the Imperial Parliament in that matter was disputed, both at the time of the Union and also at present. That Court of Ultimate Appeal would be an English one and it ought not to be forced upon the Irish people against their will.
 MR. SYNAN  pointed out that at the end of the 20th clause it was provided that the Rules with regard to Scotland and Ireland should come into operation at the same time as the Act of 1873. He considered it quite impossible that that could be done.
 MR. SYNAN  said, he thought the Attorney General had not answered the objections taken to the clause by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt). He (Mr. Synan) held that the Act, by fixing a distant date for its taking effect, contemplated that there would be abundant time given to all persons concerned to study the Rules by which the practice of the new Courts was to be guided. Even if the Rules were to be issued now, it seemed to him the time left for that purpose would be insufficient.
 MR. SERJEANT SPINKS  said, that in common justice to the profession and all parties interested, the Rules should not only be laid on the Table, but in the hands of the public a reasonable time before the Act came into operation. The
 158
 MR. GREGORY  said, that the Bill was simply a completion of the one passed last Session, and it ought, consequently, to be passed, although he quite admitted that certain of the objections which had been urged by the hon. and learned Baronet to the abolition of the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords possessed considerable weight; but it must be borne in mind that this was primarily a question for that House itself to consider. If the House of Lords had seen fit to abolish their own jurisdiction he could not see how the House of Commons could thrust it back upon them by refusing to entertain the present Bill. Therefore, it was almost superfluous to consider the Motion proposed by the hon. and learned Baronet. He (Mr. Gregory) considered the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords not so
 142
 MR. GREGORY  observed that as the Act which it was proposed to amend had not yet come into force, the Amendment did not involve any additional charge.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, it was a fact that in November last the Banbury Board of Guardians passed such a resolution as that referred to in the Question of the noble Lord. The subject was brought under the notice of the Local Government Board, who immediately pointed out to the Guardians that the resolution could have no legal force or effect, because it was in defiance of the provisions of the law. It was also true that in the spring of this year an outbreak of small-pox occurred in the Banbury district; and the Local Government Board thereupon called the attention of the Guardians to the serious responsibility which they would incur by continuing to neglect putting in force the Law upon the subject and providing facilities for vaccination and re-vaccina-
 126
 MR. WHALLEY  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether, while awaiting further legislation in respect of sanitary improvement, he will issue official instructions pointing out the means already available by sanitary authorities for obtaining where needed a better supply of water without the necessity of a special application to Parliament?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the Act of last Session sanctioning this change was passed with less mature consideration than a measure of such magnitude ought to have been. He hoped the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) would take the sense of the Committee upon the clause.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the Amendment was based on simple common sense, and if the Bill passed in its present shape it would exclude from the Supreme Appellate Court one of the most essential elements of such a tribunal.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, the effect of the Amendment would be to limit the power of the Crown in the appointment of Judges, a restriction for which there was no precedent. Scotland would continue to enjoy exactly the same benefit she had enjoyed hitherto in the selection of the best persons who could be found. As Scotchmen were not to be excluded, there was no more foundation for the Amendment than there was for one stipulating that six members of the Court should be Englishmen.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  moved, in page 2, line 13, to leave out from "twenty-one" to the end of the clause, and insert—
 "So much of the said section as is hereinbefore recited shall he repealed, and the permanent number of the Judges of the said High Court shall be twenty-four, exclusive of the Lord Chancellor." 161 Nisi Prius
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, his Amendment did not necessarily create any additional charge. By keeping the Judges at 24 there would not, in the ordinary condition of things, be any increased charge.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  intimated that, in order to raise the question involved in his Amendment, he would move that the clause be struck out.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  moved in line, 20, to leave out "any barrister," and insert "any person who has been a barrister in England."
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, it was not his intention to proceed further with the Bill this Session. The Bill had been reported in a shape which, he hoped, would receive at a future time the approval of the House; but the state of the Public Business rendered it impossible to carry the measure into Law this Session. Next Session, however, he would endeavour to get it passed. He would move now that the Order for re-committing the Bill be discharged.
 MR. RIPLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether negotiations have recently been conducted between the American Government, Sir Edw. Thornton, as representing this Country, and a representative of the Canadian Government, for a renewal of the reciprocity Treaty between the United States of America and the Dominion of Canada; whether such Treaty has been submitted to the Ame-
 129
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON , in reply, said, that at the beginning of the Session a communication from the Home Office was forwarded to the Inspectors of Mines, requesting them to send in their Returns. They did so before the end of April, and the subsequent delay had arisen from the printing, and the sending of the proofs to the Inspectors for correction. An application had been recently made for the corrected proofs, and he hoped to be able to lay the Returns on the Table before the end of the Session. For the future it was intended to require the production of these Returns at an earlier period of the year.
 MR. BUTT  said, even allowing that they were to have a now Supreme Court of Appeal for England, he could not admit that it was now too late to consider whether they ought not to retain the House of Lords as the Ultimate Court of Appeal for Ireland. He believed that England had been surprised into assenting to the abolition of the jurisdiction of the House of Lords, and that if the opinion of both branches of the profession was taken they would declare that a mistake had been made.
 MR. BUTT  expressed his belief that the opinion of the country was decidedly against the Act of last year by which the jurisdiction of the House of Lords was transferred, and that an opportunity ought to be afforded to both the House and the country for reconsideration. It had been too much the practice of late years to delegate the functions of Parliament to the Judges, and in this instance, though the Act of last Session provided that the Rules to be framed and to be adopted by the Judges should be laid before Parliament 40 days before they came into operation, they were to come into operation absolutely on the 2nd of November next. These Rules were of far too great an importance to be either framed or adopted in haste,
 155
 MR. BUTT  said, he thought the question might very conveniently be decided now.
 MR. BUTT  claimed for his Amendment the votes of those Members who had suggested an intermediate time.
 MR. BUTT  moved, in page 5, line 3, to leave out from "any judgment," to "House of Lords," in line 10. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, to carry Irish Appeals to an English Court was a violation of the Articles of Union, and it was done in opposition to the wishes of the great majority of the Irish Members. Was the House prepared, in opposition, to the wishes of the great majority of the Irish Representatives, to violate a distinct Article of the Act of Union? There would be a great inconvenience in bringing these questions to what would be essentially an English Court, which would not give satisfaction to Ireland; whereas the House of Lords as an Appellate Tribunal had given such satisfaction. It was probably too late, however, to make any alteration in this respect, but he wished to move his Amendment. The hon. and learned Member concluded by moving the Amendment.
 MR. BUTT  said, he would distinctly raise the question on the Report, by moving the omission of the clause. No division was taken upon the question last Session.
 MR. BUTT  said, he could assure the hon. and learned Member that the whole Bar of Ireland was against the change.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he did not deny that there was a feeling in Ireland in favour of retaining the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords; but the resolutions of the Judges and the Bar of that country last year were to the effect that, while it would be desirable to maintain the House of Lords as the ultimate Appellate Court for the whole Empire, if it ceased to be so for England and Scotland, Irish Appeals ought to be sent to the same ultimate tribunal as Appeals from the rest of the United
 165
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , observed that this clause only said that the Bill should come into operation at the same time as the original Act. His hon. and learned Friend had given Notice of an Amendment that the Act should not come into operation till the 1st of November, 1875. Surely it was unnecessary to discuss that question twice?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  having last year objected to abolishing the ultimate decision of appeals in the House of Lords, and having advocated the retention of the House of Lords as the Supreme Appellate Tribunal for the entire Empire, wished now to state why he was unable to support the proposition of the hon. and learned Baronet the Member for the county of Wexford (Sir George Bowyer). A great opportunity was lost last year of surrounding the ultimate tribunal with the traditional authority and power which the long services of the House of Lords in relation to the jurisprudence of the country gave to its judgments; but while he felt this strongly, he could not but also feel that if they were every year to review their legislative decisions, and if what was solemnly enacted last year was to be reversed in the present, a still greater evil than even the abolition of the House of Lords as their ultimate tribunal would be introduced—namely, a total confusion and uncertainty as to the proceedings of Parliament. Therefore, although he thought it was an error to abolish the Appellate Jurisdiction of a body which had been distinguished for taking a much larger and more expansive view of the law than the inferior Courts, whose judgments it had to review, still he was not prepared to go back and undo the legislation of last Session. Moreover, the present Bill introduced some valuable improvements which he and others strove in vain to get inserted in the measure of last year.
 MR. LEITH  rose for the purpose of supporting the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh. He, and those acting with him, did not assert it was the intention of the Government not to appoint a Scotch barrister or Judge to be one of the proposed Imperial Court of Appeal. What they asserted was, that it was not provided by the Bill that a Scotch barrister or Judge was to be a member of the Court. They admitted that the Government might intend to appoint a Scotch member of the Court; but they claimed to have a right to have it distinctly stated in the Bill itself that there should be a Scotch element in the now Imperial Court. The very circumstance: that it was to be an Imperial Court was an argument in their favour. It ought to be an Imperial Court not merely in name, but also in substance, and Scotland as well as England ought to be represented in it. In regard to the appointment of a Scotch
 171
 MR. RAMSAY  said, the primary reason for which he supported the proposal was that the law of Scotland was different from that of England, and they wished to secure that there should be one member of the Court with some knowledge of it. They had no fear that Scotch Judges would be excluded.
 MR. RAMSAY  asked whether the Bill was to extend to Scotland? The whole tenor of the measure seemed to show that it was intended exclusively for England, and he thought there should be an express exclusion of Scotland from the Bill.
 MR. SERJEANT SIMON  said, that his experience of the whole of the last Session had made him almost shrink from attempting to join in any discussion on a legal Bill, because the great majority of hon. Members did not attend to the arguments or take any interest in them. He did not mean to reproach the present Government, because they were only following the precedent set by the late Government. He did not blame the Government so much as the lay Members of the House, who, when a legal question was under discussion, paid no attention to it, and were content to follow the direction of the Government whip. With regard to the Amendment before them, he confessed that when the question of the abolition of the jurisdiction of the House of Lords was under consideration on a former occasion he was in favour of that abolition, because the House of Lords did not, in fact, deliver judgments, but left them to be delivered by two or three Peers only, whose attendance was uncertain. Its constitution was of a very poor description, and by no means such as to command the confidence of the country. A suggestion had been thrown out that that Court might be amended and improved by the creation of life Peers, and appointing Judges to sit there for purely judicial purposes; but if that were done it would be the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords; and if they were to have a newly-constituted Court
 150
 MR. BIGGAR  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he would explain to the House for what reason the county of Cavan has not yet been relieved from proclamation under the Peace Preservation (Ireland) Acts 1856 and 1870, notwithstanding the fact that for the past three years the judges attending the assizes have congratulated the grand jury on the immunity enjoyed by the county from agrarian outrage or crimes ascribable to secret societies?
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  asked the Lord Advocate, Whether, as the Court of Judicature (Ireland) Bill proposes to increase the salaries of certain Irish Judges, he proposes to introduce a Bill to carry out the unanimous recommendation of the Royal Commission on the Courts of Law in Scotland, that the
 121
 MR. MARK STEWART  said, he could not agree with the Amendment, because it assumed that no Scottish Judge would in future be appointed in the Supreme Court of Judicature. ["No, no!"] That was his impression, and it was, he believed, an assumption entirety without foundation.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, the hon. Baronet did not express the opinions of all the Irish Members, for ho, for one, did not agree with the hon. Baronet.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, a portion of the county of Cavan bordering on County Meath was specially proclaimed in 1870 on account of its disturbed state. He would make inquiries and see whether the circumstances of the case had altered, and whether it was possible to revoke that special proclamation. But the rest of the county was proclaimed, in the ordinary sense of the term, in common with a great part of Ireland, and he was bound to say he did not think it wise to revoke that proclamation. The county was one of those border counties in which there was a great rivalry of spirit between the two great factions into which Ireland was divided. One of the effects of the ordinary proclamation was to make it necessary to obtain licences in order to have or carry arms, and so long as party feeling ran as high as at present, very mischievous consequences might ensue if that power were not retained in the hands of the Government. He might also state that within the last few days only, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Cavan had called the attention of his flock to the fact of the great spread of secret societies in the county, which he condemned.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that his attention had been called to the letter to which the Question of the hon. and learned Member referred; and although he had not had time to make full inquiry into the subject, yet, from the best information which he had been able to obtain, he might say that there was no very exceptional state of distress at present in the Island of Achil. It was not unfrequent in the West of Ireland for persons in the condition of life of those referred to in this letter to subsist between the two potato crops upon Indian meal purchased on credit. If, however, there were any exceptional state of distress, there was ample provision in the Poor Law to meet it, because there was in the Island a resident Believing Officer, whose duty it would be to provide food, lodging, and medical relief in cases where those necessaries might seem to be required. Therefore, the case did not seem to him to be parallel with that of the Indian famine, or to require any exceptional action on the part of the Government.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that as there was no allusion in the Question, of which Notice had been given, to anything which
 128
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  gave Notice that early next Session he would bring under the notice of the House some facts which would have the effect of enlightening the right hon. Baronet's mind as to the meaning of these emblems, which were very different from ordinary party emblems.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he has received a Letter from the parish priest of Hollywood, County Down, complaining of the erection of arches decorated with Orange emblems over the streets leading to his chapel, so that the Roman Catholic inhabitants were obliged to pass under them when going to mass; whether it is not a fact that this year, as also on other occasions, divine service was discontinued in consequence; whether he has received a similar communication from Portrush, stating that one of the arches was inscribed with the words "No Popery;" and, whether the Government will institute an inquiry into the matter, and, in case persons holding offices of trust and favour under the Crown shall be found to be implicated in the perpetuation of these insulting customs, the Government will recommend that such persons shall be visited with the marked censure of the Crown?
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, if there was one thing more technical than another in this matter, it was the Rules framed by the Judges to give effect to the Judicature Act. That Act provided that those Rules should be laid before Parliament within 40 days after being made, and if Parliament was not sitting at the time, then within 40 days after it had assembled. The object was that Parliament should have full opportunity of considering the Rules, for it was never intended that they should be
 152
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  suggested that the Bill when passed should not come into operation until after the Rules had been published. He hoped his hon. and learned Friend would press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  considered that the Rules ought to be laid on the Table before the third reading of this Bill.
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  said, that if he had been a Member of the House when the last Judicature Act was introduced, he certainly should have voted against the proposal to do away with the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords; but he was afraid it was now too late for them to retrace their steps. Indeed nothing ever surprised him more than to see the heads of the legal profession, who represented both political
 151
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, this matter has formed the subject of discussions in the Mixed Commission at Paris, and a statement was made there by the representative of the French Government on the 10th instant, to the effect that a draft of Regulations had been prepared by the Ministry of Finance, under which it is proposed that the system of refining in bond shall be applied to French sugar refiners. This draft of Regulations will be submitted to a Committee to be appointed by the Minister of Finance and afterwards to the Council of State. Nothing further can be done until these bodies have approved the Regulations, which have not yet been communicated to Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, negotiations have been undertaken at the desire of the Canadian Government by Sir Edward Thornton and Mr. Brown, a Member of the Senate of the Dominion, for the object to which the hon. Member refers. A draft Treaty was submitted by the Government of the United States to the Senate shortly before the close of the last Session of Congress, and its consideration has been postponed until the next Session. Papers on the subject will shortly be laid before the House, with the draft Treaty.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  also opposed the Amendment, and expressed a hope that this great measure, the Supreme Court of Judicature Act, would come into operation at the appointed time, the 2nd of November. With respect to the Rules, there could be no doubt considering the great changes they would make, that great difficulty and confusion would ensue; but if the Judges worked the Rules loyally, and the professsion endeavoured to support them in carrying the Rules out, we should be as well prepared for the measure coming into effect at next Michaelmas as ever we should be.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  said, he could not help thinking, while concurring very largely in the observations of the hon. and learned Baronet, that it was really too late to attempt to save the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords. Universal regret was felt by members of the legal profession at the abandonment of the jurisdiction of the House of Lords. There had been a very natural reticence on the part of the legal profession to give a real, honest opinion upon the subject either in the House or in public; and the question had presented itself to him several times whether they ought to speak out the honest truth about it or whether they ought to be governed by the rules of good taste and propriety, considering their position as practising barristers in Court. He ventured to say that there was a very general, if not a universal, feeling of regret by the members of the legal profession that the jurisdiction of the House of Lords as a final Court of Appeal had been abolished. It was, however, too late to recur to that question now. Years ago the House of Lords had an opportunity of retaining that jurisdiction, but they neglected it, and declined to receive those moderate reforms which would have made their jurisdiction acceptable to the country. He could not help feeling that they—the House of Commons—gave way rather to popular sentiment and popular feeling in abandoning the jurisdiction of the House of Lords rather than facing the thing according to its merits, and consented rather hastily to its abolition. The House of Lords as a Final Court of Appeal had undoubtedly conducted its proceedings with the greatest solemnity, and had given the closest attention to all the arguments brought under its notice. Counsel and suitors were heard fairly and patiently without stint of time. With respect to the Exchequer Chamber, or the Lords Justices in Chancery, suitors did not receive such justice, so much so that nothing was commoner,
 143 144
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  explained that he had spoken not with reference to politics and parties, but to his position as a barrister practising before Courts to whose functions he naturally felt a delicacy in referring.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  moved to insert after "assize" the words " nisi prius agreed to. added
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  said, the object of the Amendment was merely to prevent a clause in the Act of 1873, reducing the number of the Judges, coming into operation, and therefore it did not involve any increased charge.
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he had to move that the Order of the day for the Second Reading of the Women's Disabilities
 120
 MR. W. GORDON  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to the accident which befell the so called Flying Man in his attempt to descend from a balloon in the parish of Chelsea on Thursday last, and particularly as to the circumstances which attended the catastrophe; and, whether measures can not be taken to prevent the recurrence of such exhibitions?
 COLONEL MURE  also said, there was no other reason for the new clause being-brought forward except the difference in the laws.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Chief Commissioner of Works, Whether the subject of freeing from toll the Government bridge leading to Battersea Park is under the consideration of the Office of Works, either as standing by itself or in connection with any scheme of the Metropolitan Board for freeing other metropolitan bridges; and, whether the promise of the Office of Works to plant the vacant space within Battersea Park, on the west side of that park, is to be carried out?
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would proceed to a division. If the new system was to come into operation in November next, why should they have, to wait till October before they got the code of Rules by which it was to be governed?
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  expressed his regret that the hon. and learned Member for Denbigh Boroughs (Mr. Watkin Williams) did not appear to know his own mind last Session; for if he and other learned Gentlemen who thought as he did now had known their own minds, the legislation of which they complained might not have been carried into effect. The fact was that when he himself and some 30 or 40 other Members who took an interest in the subject had spent hour after hour in discussing the present Act, they found themselves quite overborne whenever they challenged a division by some 150 or 200 Members who had never heard a word of the arguments which had been advanced on either side. His opinion, then, was that the course which it would be most desirable to take would be to create a strong Intermediate Court of Appeal, so that the strain on the House of Lords might be rendered less and the difficulties in the way of making it a perfectly satisfactory Final Court of Appeal diminished. But a different course had been taken, and he now felt bound to vote against the Resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Sir George Bowyer) simply because he was of opinion that it would be useless to vote for it, and that if carried it would lead to a great deal of confusion. Before he sat down he must protest against the delay which had occurred in laying the now Rules on the Table of the House. It was in the highest degree unsatisfactory, he thought, that they should be produced only just as the House was on the point of breaking up for the Recess, when there would be no adequate opportunity of considering them, especially as they were to come into operation so early as November. All he could say was that he hoped they would not be found to be worse than the Bill, which he had not much expectation of being
 148
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  asked Mr. Attorney General, Whether his attention has been called to the proceedings at Boston (in the matter of the Petition against the return of the then sitting Members) and to the questions submitted to the Court of Common Pleas by Mr. Justice Grove, and to the decision thereon; whether it is the fact that 877 Voters were reported as having received gifts of coal without any legal proof to that effect as respects the alleged recipients, and that 353 Voters were struck off, so as to seat the Petitioner, John Wingfield Malcolm, esquire, without hearing such Voters, or ascertaining for whom such 353 persons actually voted; and whether, thereby it becomes probable that the Petitioner has been seated by the process of striking off votes given for himself?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER , in rising to move the Amendment of which he had given Notice, said, he was not in Parliament last year, and therefore was unable to say how an Act involving such an important subject as the Appellate Jurisdiction could have passed, he would not say in haste, but at least not with that degree of consideration which the constitutional importance of the question demanded. At all events, he intended to propose that the matter should be reconsidered, and he did so on the ground that the Attorney General for Ireland last year opposed that portion of the Bill which dealt with the Appellate Jurisdiction; the Attorney General for England opposed it, the present Lord Advocate opposed it, and the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government was not then, or now, enthusiastic for the change. The right hon. Gentleman was too great a constitutional statesman not to see the import of the transfer of the Appellate Jurisdiction, and the serious consequences which might flow from it. He believed he might say that the right hon. Gentlemen who were now on the Treasury Bench and opposed the change last year, were not more favourable to it now, though circumstances compelled them to support it. The bench, the bar, and the solicitors in Scotland were opposed to the change, and the same might be said in regard to Ireland; while with regard to England, a short time ago a Petition was presented, signed by almost every gentleman in large practice at the bar of England, expressing regret at the abolition of the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords, as they considered that jurisdiction ought not to have been abolished unless a better Court could be
 134 ex officio ex officio 135 136 137 Jurisdiction of the House of Lords 138 139
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  asked, why it was intended to try the miserable experiment of a Court in which nobody believed? The Judges, Bar, and the people of Ireland and Scotland, were opposed to the change. The Government should reconsider the question.
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  said, he was quite aware that the Bar of
 172
 SIR HENRY DRUMMOND WOLFF  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Her Majesty's Government have come to the determination to follow the precedent established by the Act 18 & 19 Vic. c. 77, and are about to bring in a Bill enabling the Treasury to distribute the sum payable to Her Majesty's Government, by the United States, under the final award of the late Mixed Claims Commission?
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  expressed his intention to support any proposal for the maintenance of trial by jury, if it appeared that the new Rules prepared in accordance with this Act in any way interfered with that institution. As to the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords, he thought the time had come when they might be released from their labours in that respect; and with regard to the new Supreme Court of Appeal, he feared it was one not quite worthy of the wants of the country. He hoped the Bill would be allowed to go into Committee, and that the various details of the Bill would then be thoroughly sifted.
 SIR JOHN KARSLAKE  defended the House of Lords from the injustice done to it by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just addressed the House. No doubt some abuses had occurred. It was a misfortune when a Lord Chancellor sat alone to confirm his own judgments. It was also a misfortune when a learned counsel, having been raised to the Bench, sat in judgment upon cases upon which he bad been employed professionally. But whatever might be done to establish a great Appeal Court for the country, he believed they would look in vain for any Court whose judgments would be treated with such profound respect as those of the House of Lords during the last 50 years. The recorded judgments of the House of Lords delivered during the last century would always be looked upon as containing a body of law of the utmost value, and as being decisions that would rule and govern any Court of Appeal that might hereafter he established. He must bear his testimony to the great learning, the great attention, and the great courtesy that had ever distinguished that tribunal, and it was with the greatest reluctance that he had convinced himself that the time had come when, at their own request, and at their own desire, the Appellate Jurisdiction of their Lordships must be abolished, inasmuch as the work that would have to be done would exceed the power of their staff to perform it. The hon. and learned Baronet (Sir George Bowyer) had urged that whereas the other Courts sat eight months in the year, the House of Lords sat to hear appeals only six months in the year; but he forgot that even during the period when the House sat, it only heard appeals during four days in the week, and even then with frequent interruptions, owing to the House having to sit as a Committee for Privileges. It would be impossible, under these circumstances, for the House of Lords to get through the vast influx of business that would result from the
 154
 SIR JOHN KARSLAKE  said, it had been expressly provided by Clause 68 of the former Act that in the event of the Rules not being ready when Parliament was sitting, they should nevertheless come into operation, subject only to this proviso, that they should be laid on the Table when Parliament met. The power of making these Rules was limited by the 68th section, and the learned Judge would, no doubt, keep strictly within that power. There was no doubt any lawyer or solicitor who had to consider the Rules would, without difficulty, understand them before the time they were to come into operation, and be able to advise his client upon them. The rules had been prepared with the utmost care by the learned Judges, and with the one sole object of carrying out the Act as effectually as they could.
 MR. SOLATER BOOTH : Sir, I may remind the hon. Member that in the Digest of Sanitary Laws recently issued to all urban and rural authorities, their existing powers in regard to water supply
 132
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that it was not considered necessary to pass an Act on that subject. The greater portion of those claims would have to be paid in America—in Washington—between the months of October and December, and such as were not satisfied by December would be subsequently paid in this country.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, Scotland would be much more affected by the Act than Ireland. In Scotland there was a strong feeling against the transfer of the jurisdiction of the House of Lords, both amongst advocates and solicitors practising in the Courts. Their opinions had not been made public, however; but they had said to many Members of Parliament that if the jurisdiction of the Upper House were maintained for England it should be for Scotland also. He hoped the Committee would press upon the Government the advisability of making this tribunal a more mixed one.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that in Scotland very great interest was felt in the question of the Rules being framed in due time before the Act came into operation. By Clause 20 there were some very large powers conferred upon the Judges of the inferior Court of Appeal conjointly with the Lord President of the Court of Session and the Lord Justice Clerk. His attention had been drawn to the terms in which these Rules were to be framed, in such a manner as to raise an apprehension that they might regulate the proceedings of the Court of Appeal in too stringent a manner. Now, without raising any question with regard to their terms, he should to like to ask the learned Attorney General or his learned Friend the
 157
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  expressed his regret that the Home Secretary had risen so early in the discussion, committing Her Majesty's Government to the opinions he had expressed before an opportunity was afforded for anything like a general expression of the views of the Scotch Members. This was a question which excited great interest among the professional public, and a concession on the point at issue would do much towards reconciling people to the change of Appellate Jurisdiction.
 MR. CHARLEY  said, that considering the position which he took up last year, it would be ungenerous if he left the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir George Bowyer) to fight this question alone. If he erred in supporting the Motion of the hon. and learned Baronet, he erred with all the Conservative lawyers who spoke on this question last year. On the broad ground taken by the hon. and learned Member for Frome (Mr. Lopes), whom he regarded as a Constitutional authority, he contended that to abolish the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords was unconstitutional. That High Court in the discharge of its duty claimed the support and confidence of the people of this country. He respectfully asked Her Majesty's Government to reconsider this subject. Of all the arguments that had been advanced in favour of the abolition of the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords, he thought the weakest was that the House of Lords had surrendered its jurisdiction. The hon. and learned Baronet had justly condemned that argument. He entirely endorsed what had been said last year by the Attorney General for Ireland, that this jurisdiction was—
 "a trust—a duty cast upon it by the Constitution. and the will of the people of England through that Constitution. That House had no right to abandon a sacred trust and a duty." [3  Hansard Si antiquitatem spectes est vetustissima, si dignitatem est honoratissima, si juris-dictionem est capacissima. 141
 MR. CHARLEY  said, that the clause raised the whole question of the Appellate Jurisdiction of the House of Lords, which he was anxious to maintain. The only argument which he had heard in support of the proposal to abolish it was that it was the duty of the Government to endorse the policy of their predecessors, which he denied; and, secondly, that the House of Lords had themselves surrendered it, but he denied their competency to do so without the assent of the House of Commons. The House would be therefore quite justified in declaring that that jurisdiction ought not to be abolished, and he hoped there would be some expression of opinion to that effect.
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked the Under-Secretary of State for India, Whether the noble Lord will lay a Copy of the General Order of the India Office of August 15th, 1872, referred to by him on the 15th instant, upon the Table of the House, as well as a Return of Majors of the Artillery of the late East India Company's Service who have retired since July 5th, 1872, stating the amount of full pay, if any, granted on such retirement?
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that Majors of the Royal Artillery, now on service in India in command of batteries, do not receive the pay of their rank; and, if so, whether the subject has ever been brought to the notice of the Secretary of State for India by the War Department?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, it was the fact that Homo Officers of the rank mentioned by the hon. and gallant Member did not receive the pay of their rank. The Secretary of State for India was, he might add, aware of the circumstances at the time of the passing of the Act, and had been so since. In consequence, however, of the short Notice he had of the hon. and gallant Gentleman's Question, he had not been able to communicate with his noble Friend at the head of the Indian Department, to ascertain from him what was the state of things at the present moment.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that during the first discussion on the Bill, he insisted on the point which had been taken to-day by his right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Lowe), in the form of an Instruction, and he could not help thinking that if his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Russell Gurney) or those who had originated the Bill in the other House had introduced it as an Amendment of the ecclesiastical procedure throughout, a great deal of the heat of these discussions would have been avoided. His right hon. and learned Friend had placed on the Paper a very conciliatory Amendment, to the effect that the Bill should not come into operation until the 1st of July next year. The Judge to be appointed under this Bill would in November become Dean of Arches, and probably Provincial Judge of the Province of York. He hoped his right hon. and learned Friend would state whether he would undertake to introduce at the beginning of next Session, a Bill providing that the procedure adopted in regard to these special offences should be
 215
 MR. BEISTOWE  thought the Instruction proposed by his right hon. 216
 MR. GLADSTONE : I say the market has lowered, if we are to get a first-rate man for £3,000 a year. It being admitted that he ought to be a first-rate man, why should we pay £5,000 a-year to all our Chancellors, who cannot be bettor than first-rate men? The real truth is that this is a low figure, this £3,000, and it is chosen apparently, because there is a suspicion that there will not be a sufficiency of duty. Now, that is an arrangement which cannot in any way be deemed satisfactory, and I think wisdom dictates a pretty clear course. We cannot be certain what will happen. We must look to probabilities. If we look to those there may be more or less litigation; but as to the idea of a Judge continually sitting and deciding ecclesiastical controversies, I say no man contemplates such a state of things. I say that if any man contemplated such a state of things, and believed that from life to life and from generation to generation, that was to be the future condition of the Church of England, neither that Church nor any other Established Church could stand such a state of things, and such a scheme would be more likely than anything else to promote the views of the hon. Member for Merthyr Tydvil (Mr. Richard). It appears to me also we ought not to look simply to the remuneration of the Judgeship. We have, from the composition of our laws, arrangements by which a great many of the most eminent jurists are disposable. Independently of the Judges of the land, we have usually two or three retired Lord Chancellors, and five or six persons retired from other offices, who, although they may not be in such bodily vigour
 226
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I rise for the purpose of seconding the Motion of my hon. Friend. I should not attempt to detain the House for a few moments, were I not convinced that my hon. Friend who made the Motion is really considering economy of time in making it; and that the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder for the City of London has it in his power to produce a very considerable economy of time if he is disposed—and I hope he may be—to accede to the principle of the Motion. What I conceive that principle to be is this—that we do not intend to charge the salary of the Judge who is to be appointed under this Bill upon that fund which is the solo public fund we are enabled to look to for the augmentation of many scandalously small clerical incomes in the Church of England, and for the foundation of new cures in that Church. This is not a small question; it is a question broad in principle. The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Russell Gurney), in his speech on the second reading, made a statement in de fence of the principle of the Bill which he afterwards found to be incorrect. I am told that it is entirely untrue that the salaries of diocesan chancellors are charged upon the Common Fund of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners; but whether they are or not, I am, for my own part, equally prepared to resist any invasion of that fund for the purpose of providing the salary of this Judge. In my opinion, the matter of the salaries of diocesan chancellors has never been considered by this House so as to make the Common Fund of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners liable for them; and until I am better informed, I shall continue to believe that there is no such charge upon that fund. But be that as it may, is it now really to be supposed that we are going to provide this salary from such a source, or is the salary necessary at all? I contend there is no such necessity; there is no cause for appointing a permanent Judge with a high salary, for if there is to be litigation under the Bill, it must be litigation for the settlement of certain questions which when once settled cannot seriously recur; and it is quite impossible to compare them with a case where you are going to provide a means of dealing
 224 s 225 baissé
 MR. HUBBARD ( London , in moving, with the view of preventing any misapprehension and of describing more accurately the present nature of the Bill, that the title be altered from "The Public Worship Regulation Act, 1874," to "The Ecclesiastical Causes Procedure Act, 1874," said, the measure had in its progress acquired a degree of fairness which justified the House in passing the second reading. As the Bill had come down to them, he did not see any objec
 229
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the Amendment, as it stood, was liable to objection, because it seemed to imply that all ecclesiastical causes came under the Act. On the other hand, the present title was not accurate.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  suggested that the words "and the Channel Islands" should be omitted, because the Channel Islands might not be willing to accept the legislation of the House.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he had not yet made an inquiry on the subject, but he thought the best course would be to postpone the Amendment till the Report.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that was a matter which touched the dignity of only a very small body, and he thought it would be far bettor to omit the words.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  moved, as an Amendment, in page 1, line 15, the omission of the words "and to the Channel Islands."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  also supported the Amendment. He did not see why cathedral or collegiate churches should be allowed to transgress the law any more than other churches. He looked upon them as mother churches who should set an example to the others.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the Committee appeared to be unanimously of opinion that cathedral and collegiate churches should be included. The Committee was not, however, now discussing what places should be included in the scope of the Bill, but what should be the meaning of the word "church." Perhaps the right hon. and learned Recorder, who drafted the Bill, was the best judge on this point.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he wished to point out that "incumbent" was so explained that it would be applicable to a parish as well as to a collegiate church.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  opposed the Amendment, which would turn cathedrals into a sort of proprietary chapels to those who lived in their precincts.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, that object would be effected by an Amendment which he intended to move in a subsequent clause.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the question now being that the clause be agreed to, the hon. Member was in Order.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, it was very rarely that Wesleyans attended a Ritualistic church, and therefore such persons were not likely to be aggrieved parishioners.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, the Church did not interfere with Dissenters, and he did not think it would be right that Dissenters should be allowed to interfere with a service from which they had spontaneously alienated themselves.
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  said, if the new Judicature Act had contemplated the appointment of three additional Judges he could understand their proposing to appoint one of them the Judge to execute this Act, but not otherwise.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, he hoped that, by the appointment, the hard-working incumbents of poor livings in populous places, who obeyed the law, would not be called upon to defray the expenses of their richer neighbours who broke the law.
 MR. YOUNG  said, he believed that the Bill, when carried, would be almost self-acting. He would suggest, however, that one of the Colonial Lord Chief Justices who generally returned to this country in the prime of life might be appointed to try these cases. They were not used up, were in receipt of pensions, and were perfectly qualified for the office.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that he could not comprehend the proposal, which, so far as he could understand it, would have the effect of rolling 27 gentlemen into one. The Committee were in this difficulty—these Courts were the Courts of the Bishops, who had sent down the Bill without any intimation that they desired to give them up, and it might very well be that they were of use for other purposes, and could not be dispensed with. It would be a dangerous course to abolish them in a Bill of this kind by the omission of the indefinite article.
 MR. GLADSTONE , in moving, as an Amendment, in pages 3 and 4, the omission of the words—
 "Any salary or emoluments which such Judge shall he entitled to receive from the said offices, other than the office of Judge under this Act, shall be paid over by him to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for ling-land, and all fees payable in respect of proceeding's before the said Judge under this Act shall also be paid over to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. The Ecclesiastical Commissioners shall pay to the said Judge by equal quarterly payments such salary as shall be assigned by the Queen, by Order in Council, not exceeding the sum of three thousand pounds per annum." 243 244
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The Government will take care that the House shall have an opportunity of discussing the question before Parliament separates.
 MR BEESFORD HOPE  begged the hon. Member for Swansea to recollect that the individual to be appointed Judge must be the Dean of Arches and Master of Faculties—the  alter ego 248
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  hoped the hon. Member for Swansea would not press his Amendment. The question was already practically decided, as the Judge must be Master of the Faculties and hold certain other offices which undoubtedly would be held only by a member of the Church of England. Besides, he felt they ought to conciliate the clergy in a matter of this kind. It was only right that the individual who was to be considered the judge of their conduct should be a member of the Church of England; and if that was the opinion of the Committee, they should have the courage to say so.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, as this Judge would be the only Ecclesiastical Judge left, and he was to deal only with the
 250
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY said, he did not propose to discuss the Notice then, but he altogether protested against his hon. and learned Friend using a term in respect to Her Majesty which had been refused by Queen Elizabeth and had never been employed since her time, except by Queen Anne. Her Majesty was not the head of the Church of England.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  would venture to remind the Committee, that there was plenty to be done without now discussing a proposal which must be fully debated on the Report.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he hoped the Amendment would be adopted. The effect of the retention of rural deans in the Bill would be to create distinctions between rural deans and neighbouring clergymen, which, in fact, did not exist.
 SIR WILLIAM TIARCOURT  hoped that the right hon. and learned Gentleman would not alter the number of parishioners named in the Bill. The general principle of law was that any of Her Majesty's subjects were entitled to complain of a broach of the law; but, seeing that three was the number fixed by the other House, and that there was no particular reason why they should take one number more than another, he was content to abide by it, inasmuch as it gave some security against individual malignity.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  referred his hon. Friend who last addressed the Committee to the Interpretation Clause, by which it was made clear that a churchwarden—whether of the mother church of a parish or of a district in the parish—could only by any action he took affect the particular district in respect of which he had been selected or elected.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  opposed the Amendment.
 MR. GLADSTONE  supported the proposal of his right hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen). He thought the insertion of the proposed words very important.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that he thought the words were quite unnecessary.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, any hon. Member who acted as a magistrate at quarter sessions must have noticed how memorials were got up in every parish, and the same course might be adopted in this case. He hoped the number "three" would be adhered to.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  would remind his hon. Friend that there was a lodger as well as a household franchise. All they wanted was the guarantee that the persons complaining were  bonâ fide
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, there was no doubt the 16th clause had been put into the Bill on the understanding that cathedrals were to be dealt with separately, but the alteration now affected in Clause 8 rendered it necessary that they should be regarded merely as larger churches, He always looked upon
 257
 SIR HENRY DRUMMOND WOLEF  said, he objected to the omission of Clause 16 as suggested by the hon. and learned Member for the City of Oxford.
 MR. WALPOLE  considered that the clause did not apply to cathedrals.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the right hon. and learned Recorder ought to take the initiative in proposing that the Bill should be made applicable to illegal conduct on the part of the Bishops, as well as to offences committed by incumbents. The Bill had not the slightest reference to the conduct of the Bishops in the performance of Divine Service. He wished to draw attention to the fact that in every parish the Bishop of the diocese had the right to be minister whenever, and as often as he pleased, to the extent even of setting the incumbent aside. That being the case, it seemed to him highly inexpedient, especially in the case of a Bill framed under episcopal sanction, and which had for its object to establish legality in too bare and naked a form, that an immunity so unnecessary and so useless should be established on behalf of the Bishops themselves. That immunity would be at once invidious and unnecessary. He would not himself bring forward a proposal on the subject, as if he did so, he would pro
 259
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, it was quite clear that the incumbent was "the person" intended to be punished, for he was "the person" who would be made responsible by the proposal of the right hon. and learned Recorder. That proposal would allow any person to raise a complaint of a thing as an illegality although it was of the greatest possible benefit to a church. He did not object to some limit of time as to alterations of a church; but he asked anyone who had been connected with alterations in churches, whether the Bishop had not been only too glad if people would attempt to alter a church without asking for faculties? When things were not illegal, it was monstrous that anybody should be allowed to raise what might prove to be a vexatious litigation on the subject.
 MR. GLADSTONE  pointed out that the Amendment went beyond the matter of illegalities aimed at by the Bill, to a branch of the existing Ecclesiastical Law which had nothing to do with these illegalities, and recommended that the operation of the clause should be confined throughout to the latter. He trusted that the right hon. and learned Recorder would give effect to that view, so as to keep the clause in conformity with the purpose of the Bill. A faculty, however,
 261
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  suggested that the desired object would be obtained by making the clause read "fabrics, ornaments, or furniture forbidden by law."
 MR. HUBBARD  moved, as an Amendment, in line 26, to insert after "Church or" the following words—"neglected to use any prescribed ornament or vesture."
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the Amendment was of some importance, and it was quite plain that nothing would be gained by commencing a discussion upon it, unless there was a prospect of completing it. He was very desirous to
 263 Cries of
 MR. HUBBARD  regarded the Amendment as a very simple one. It merely gave the Bishop instructions how to act in certain circumstances. The House was, he thought, now in a position to come to a decision respecting it.
 THE CHAIRMAN  reminded the hon. Member that the question before the Committee was the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that he had withdrawn the Resolutions, in order that the questions they raised might be altogether severed from the progress of the present Bill. That was a question in respect to which the House had not merely to consider the discussion among themselves, but it was also desirable that the public should be informed of what hon. Members were doing. If they debated the matter from that time until 3 o'clock in the morning, full justice could not be done to it, and of what avail or profit would it be as far as the country was concerned? The continuation of the state of illegality which had been referred to by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Oxford was one which could only be properly interpreted by reference to the entire history of our Church since the Reformation. In his judgment, it would be necessary, or at least desirable, to renew the discussion on the Report, and to take that opportunity of explaining a matter of great importance, under such circumstances that the country would be likely to obtain information of what hon. Members were about, which it could not do, if the course proposed were persisted in. Perhaps it might be necessary to move the re-committal of the Bill.
 MR. GLADSTONE  suggested that it would be more convenient to proceed with the present Bill on Monday, and to postpone until Tuesday the consideration in Committee of the Endowed Schools Bill.
 MR. A. EGERTON  hoped that the proposed Amendment of the hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Beresford Hope) would be agreed to.
 MR. WILBRAHAM EGERTON  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 3, to leave out all after "relates" to "parish," in line 5, inclusive.
 MR. WILBRAHAM EGERTON , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 29, to leave out "one year," and insert "three years," said, such an Amendment was necessary in order to give greater security against a man newly settled in the parish harassing an incumbent by vexatious proceedings. The complaining parishioner, he thought, should be a person of some standing in the parish. If that were required, it might prevent persons going about from parish to parish for the mere purpose of taking proceedings against the incumbent.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE , who had to move the next Amendment upon the Paper, said, it was hopeless to expect that its discussion could be concluded at that sitting, and, as it would be inconvenient to adjourn in the middle of the discussion, he should move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  said, that he had no desire to hinder proceedings; but as it was impossible the discussion could be concluded at that sitting, he believed it would assist the progress of the Bill not to commence it now.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  said, that he would accept the decision of the Committee, and at once proceed with his Amendment, which was to add, in page 4, line 41, after "representation," the words—
 "And it shall be the duty of the bishop on the receipt of the representation to ascertain, so far as he is able, whether the practice specified in such representation is or is not in accordance with the established custom, and whether it is or is not in consonance with the wishes of the members of the Church of England resident in the parish, and with the wishes of the persons attending or desiring to attend the services in such church." 264 265
 LORD FRANCIS HERVEY  said, that after what had been stated by the right hon. and learned Recorder, he should not feel it necessary to embarrass him or the House by moving the Amendments of which he had given Notice.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in reply, said, he had no objection to lay on the Table of the House a Copy of the Papers referred to by the hon. and gallant Member.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  thanked the right hon. and learned Gentleman for the concession he had granted.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, if collegiate churches were to be included, it would be necessary to provide some other machinery to put the law in motion.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  moved, as an Amendment, that the words "the churchwardens," should be substituted for the words "a churchwarden," in line 14. It ought not, he thought, to be in the power of one person to disturb a parish or district by the adoption of legal proceedings under the Bill.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  agreed in the view of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich. He objected to the scope of the Amendment.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  hoped that the Amendment would not be pressed.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the short title—namely, "The Public Worship Regulation Act, 1874," described the real objects of the Bill, and, if that was rather lengthened, it would answer every purpose.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, he was now in communication with the authorities of the Great Western Railway on the subject, and could not yet give a definite answer to the Question.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he did not share in the apprehensions of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford, and he believed the feeling of the House was well ascertained that the same form of procedure must be applied to all classes of offenders against ecclesiastical law. But after the conciliatory and statesmanlike answer given by the right hon. and learned Recorder, he would ask whether they were not now discussing what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Loudon would call form rather than substance. The right hon. and learned Recorder had said, that he assented to the views placed so well before the House by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London, and that next year, he would undertake to introduce a Bill in conformity with those views. He, for one, recognizing the impartial spirit which had characterized the language and proceedings of the right hon. and learned Recorder throughout the discussion, was perfectly satisfied with the pledge he had given, and it would be a most unfortunate circumstance, after the pledge was given, if the House were now to discuss and divide upon the Motion of the right hon. Member for the University of London. His sole motive for rising was to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he would not consent to withdraw the Instruction.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  thought the objection ought to be raised when they came to the Schedule, and not on that clause.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  inferred, from what was stated by the hon. Member for Gloucester earlier in the debate, that the real object was to abolish the Chancellors throughout the Church of England. If that were so, it was a great step which the Committee was called
 241
 LORD RANDOLPH CHURCHILL wished to know whether the right hon. and learned Recorder would consent to insert after the word "male" "or female." Women were often better church-goers than men, and it was hardly right, therefore, to exclude them from the power of joining in a complaint.
 MR. PELL  asked the Vice President of the Council, with reference to the eleventh Clause of the Agricultural Children Act, enabling children to go to work, Whether such timely instructions will be given to Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools as will ensure the obtaining from them or from persons deputed by them, before the close of this year, the requisite certificates, without which children who have previously reached the fourth standard of education may, on and after January 1st 1875, be prevented taking employment in agriculture; further, in the case of outdoor pauper children, whether the Vice President of the Council will state if any and what arrangements have been made for the examination of such children, so that where a child shall have reached the requisite standard of education, he and those concerned may be enabled to take advantage of the provisions of the third Clause of the Elementary Education Act, 1873; and whether, in cases where Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools decline to give to managers of voluntary schools on application the names of those children who have reached the different standards, although such information is given by the Inspectors in the case of Board schools, the Vice President of the Council would direct such information to be given when needed for the purposes of the Agricultural Children Act and the Elementary Education Act, 1873?
 MR. PELL  said, he could have understood the Amendment, if it had provided that the man should be a resident worshipper.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved, as an Amendment, in line 15, after "parish" to insert—
 "and who have been resident householders me the parish during at least the last preceding twelve months."
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that was true of boroughs, but there was no
 256
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved, as an Amendment, in line 15, to leave out the words" rural deanery."
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  also objected against juggling away their determination as suggested by his hon. and learned Friend.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  trusted his hon. Friend the Member for Gloucester (Mr. Wait) would not press the Amendment, as the question of the cathedrals would be gone into on the 16th clause.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that by the common law of the Church, the fabric of the church was in the hands not of the incumbent, but of the churchwardens, with an exception as to the chancel in the case of a rectory; and the clause, in a very quiet way, introduced quite a new principle, by making the incumbent responsible where he had not been so before. He would suggest that the words" and by his direction" should be added to those proposed to be inserted. The incumbent would then be liable and punishable for any illegality of which he might be guilty, but not for the acts of others.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he should heartily prefer the word "worshipper" to "householder." No doubt, a lodger might be as good a man as a householder, and a man might be a good man although he slept in Hyde Park. He only followed the analogy of our Constitution, which made a householder an elector.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  thought a definition of churchwarden should be inserted in the Interpretation Clause.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved, as an Amendment, in page 4, lino 13, to leave out "or the rural," to" deanery," in the next line. He thought it advisable that the rural dean should be exempted from the clause, as he was not a distant and elevated official like the Archdeacon, but only a  primus inter pares
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he had an Amendment on the Paper to substitute "six" for "three;" but as three had come down from the other House, he should not try to disturb it. He should, however, like to have some guarantee that the three parishioners should be substantial men, and not men of straw. He would therefore give Notice of his intention to move an Amendment to the effect that the parishioners should have resided in the parish for at least 12 months.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved as Amendment, in page 4, line 23, to leave out "twelve," and insert "six." He did so, because he thought it would
 262
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he could not look upon the question raised as simple. It was one which deserved, and, he hoped, would receive further consideration.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : Although I shall not proceed with the Resolution of which I have given Notice, I am not sorry that I put it on the Paper because it expresses views which I believe ought to be brought before the House at this stage of the discussion. It has been criticized for its length but a long Notice often saves the necessity of a long speech. I could have shown that there was a more excellent way of dealing with the subject than that proposed by the Bill; but the postponement of the date at which the Act is to come into operation from January to July next year, will give that time to the Church in its constituted assembly to review the rubrics for which I plead. It will also give time to Parliament, if it pleases, to enact such changes consequent on that review as may appear desirable With this arrangement I am quite satisfied; indeed, I may claim that I have been virtually successful in the object of my Motion. I trust that neither Convocation nor Parliament will lose time in dealing with the question. I will not keep the House another minute from going into Committee; for my Resolution as it stands on the Paper sufficiently shows that the credit of having undertaken to grapple with the Ritual difficulty not by way of simple repression and sharper penalties, but through the politic course of considering the rubrics and of amending them according to the changed conditions of the times, is due in the first instance to a Conservative Government, namely to that of the late Earl of Derby, when the present Prime Minister was, as he now is, leader of this House. The Ritual Commission so appointed dates back to the year 1867, and Parliament, as I have proved, co-operated in the policy during more than one Session; Convocation also played its part, and thus both Church and State have already granted some rubrical relaxations in Acts which were unanimously passed. Parliament will now have the opportunity of completing the work so well undertaken and so unluckily interrupted.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : After the direct appeal which has been made to me by my hon. and learned Friend, I hope the House will allow me to assure him that he has fully and correctly represented mo. The House knows very well that I have never concealed my opinion that this Bill was a hastily-conceived one; but after the debate of Wednesday last, I came to the conclusion that, rightly or wrongly, the House had determined to pass it this Session. I have accordingly gone very carefully through the Amendments upon the Paper, and I was surprised to find how short and few these were, which would alter the Bill into the shape proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London; but, more than that, as the hon. and learned Member who spoke last pointed out, not only are those Amendments few, but they sweep away an enormous number of others which belong to the Bill as it stands. The adoption of the right hon. Gentleman's Instruction might cost us, at the outside, an additional day's sitting; and, then, what should we gain for it? A great deal of the heat which has been generated and no little of the sense of grievance which has rankled throughout the country, as I can personally testify, and as it was so well put forward by the right hon. Gentleman, has arisen from the fact that many clergymen did feel that, whether the new procedure was right or wrong, wise or unwise, it was hard linos to come down upon them with a penal Bill relating to differences of Ritual, and to leave grave moral offences untouched. If you alter the Bill in the way proposed, you would be just as well able under the altered Bill to come down upon Ritual-ism, whatever that may mean. For I
 217
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  suggested that the Amendment be postponed till the 16th clause was reached, which dealt with cathedral churches.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  rose to Order. The hon. Member was returning to a question which had been decided.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved as an Amendment in page 3, line 11, after "sign manual," to insert "jointly or severally as the case may be." The hon. Member said the object of the Amendment was to enable two Judges to be appointed, one for the Province of Canterbury, the other for the Province of York. Under the Bill there was to be one provincial Judge for all England. He fully agreed that there ought to be a small number of Judges; but thought the Bill went too far in laying down absolutely that the Provinces of Canterbury and York, differing in their history, traditions, and local circumstances, and in many respects in the character of their inhabitants, should necessarily have the same Judge. He proposed that, if it should be necessary, there should be two Judges. Possibly a retired Judge might be appointed—who need not be an ecclesiastical jurisconsult—the sole business of whose life would be directed to the various ecclesiastical offences raised under this Bill. If there were two Judges, there would be the advantage that one of them might correct the mistake of the other, and not risk the idiosyncrasies of a man—who had, perhaps, gone to Church law late in life—being stamped upon the whole Church.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he wished to avoid any misconception that might arise from the fact that he, too, had proposed to omit the letter "a;" but his reason was just the opposite of that of the hon. Member for Gloucester, with whom he did not agree. His own Amendment was a consequential one, following upon an Amendment which the House had declined to accept, so that it must be abandoned.
 MR. ALDERMAN W. M'ARTHUR  said, that after the very satisfactory statement made by the noble Lord in "another place" as to the intentions of the Government to yield to the expressed wish of the inhabitants of Fiji, and to annex those Islands, he did not think he would be acting rightly if he did not accede to the appeal just made to him by the Prime Minister.
 MR. A. MILLS  pointed out that the discussion was wandering from the subject of the Motion. The time might arrive when words relating to the conduct of the Bishop might be inserted; but the Amendment which had been made had no reference to that question.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he should be happy to give every possible facility for the discussion of the Bill, but he thought it was a rather early hour—twenty minutes to one—to report Progress. He hoped the Committee would go on for another hour before reporting Progress.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would not oppose the Motion to report Progress, were it not that he thought there was a very general feeling in the Committee in favour of coming to a conclusion on the question under discussion. Surely in the course of another hour they could have sufficiently discussed the Amendment, for he believed the majority of the Committee were not in a mood to discuss it, as they were quite opposed to its purport.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he could not adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, as he had to look at the relative positions of the two Bills with regard to the other House of Parliament. The Public Worship Regulation Bill had already passed the House of Lords, whereas the Endowed Schools Bill had not.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman he would consent to Progress being reported. With regard to the further progress of the Bill, he might state that the Government intended to proceed on Monday with the Endowed Schools Bill in Committee. If it passed through Committee on that day he would propose that this Bill should be proceeded with on Tuesday, and he
 268
 MR. DISRAELI , while thanking the hon. Member for yielding to his suggestion, would be sorry to obtain that concession under anything like false pretences. The hon. Member had certainly made a communication to the House which his noble Colleague in "another place" had not made to him (Mr. Disraeli).
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the question was, when they should meet again to resume the consideration of that Bill in Committee. It would be convenient if they could do so that evening. There were some Motions on the Paper which were interesting, but not of that absorbing character which the present Bill possessed. One of them, of which Notice had been given by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Alderman M'Arthur), related to the Fiji Islands—a subject which now very much occupied the attention of the Government; and he did not think its discussion would be very convenient at the present moment. There were several other Motions by hon. Gentlemen which, although he appreciated their importance, he did not think could compete for a moment in interest with the continuance of their labours on that Bill: and. therefore, if those hon. Mem
 246
 MR. DISRAELI  said, his opinion was, that they ought to appoint an efficient man—the most efficient they could—to transact the business, without any reference to any other circumstances. He would remind the Committee that the Judge who would be appointed would have, perhaps, more to perform than they contemplated, because all these duties of the Ecclesiastical Judge were performed by the Judge of the Admiralty Court, and he was paid a large salary—£4,000 a-year—by the nation. That Judge, under the new Judicature Act, would relinquish all those ecclesiastical duties. He would be raised to
 240
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, an appeal has been made to the Government and to myself to express an opinion upon the question. I think the offer made by the right hon. and learned Recorder was made in a very liberal spirit, and the House ought to appreciate it. But the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Dodson) seems to think that it is the duty of the Government, and it is in their power, to carry the Instruction of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London into effect, if they determined to do so. I do not wish at present to give an opinion upon the policy recommended by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London. I have considered the matter while this discussion has been going on, and it is my opinion that if that Instruction be carried, there will immediately crop up upon our Paper a new class of Amendments. For instance, there will be the question as to the mode of trial of criminous clerks—whether they should be tried by a jury or not, a question which has already been debated in Convocation; but that is only one example of the class of questions which would immediately arise. Therefore, without giving any opinion myself upon the policy involved in the Instruction, I can only say, being anxious that the Bill should pass, I beg to disclaim the responsibility which the right hon. Member for Chester wishes to place upon me. I recommend the House not to adopt the Instruction of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London, although it may be founded on sound principles, and may lead hereafter to beneficial legislation, but to go as soon as possible into Committee on the Bill.
 MR. CAWLEY  said, the real offender ought to be dealt with, and, as the right hon. and learned Gentleman had made a mistake in making his proposition, he (Mr. Cawley) should vote against it.
 MR. CAWLEY  said, the Committee had already decided that the man should be a parishioner, and that was enough.
 MR. MONK  said, he had been in a cathedral when 150 banns of marriage were published; there could be no doubt therefore that that was a parish church. As the Bill was drawn, it was intended to exempt cathedrals; but the Committee had now decided that cathedral churches should not be exempted.
 MR. MONK  in rising, according to Notice, to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable that so soon as a vacancy shall from time to time occur in the office of Vicar General and Official Principal of each of the Provincial and of the Diocesan Courts in England and Wales, the Judge to be appointed under this Act
 222 ex officio vivâ voce 223
 MR. MONK , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 15, to leave out "a," said, that the object of his Amendment was that, as vacancies occurred in the office of Vicar General of any of the diocesan Courts in England and Wales, the Judge to be appointed under the Bill should fill those offices  ex officio ex officio ex officio
 MR. MONK  said, he hoped the Amendment would not be agreed to, it being, in his opinion, most important that there should be a special Judge for this kind of business. If his Amendment had been adopted, there would have been ample funds from which to pay the Judge.
 MR. MONK  moved, in page 3, line 5, after "parish," to insert "or cathedral precincts."
 MR. MONK  explained that his object was to enable somebody who saw anything wrong in a cathedral church to become a complainant.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  maintained that there was ample justification for the proposal in the Bill. For how had that Common Fund been formed? Out of incomes taken from the Bishops, who were, therefore, no longer able to meet the expense of prosecutions under the cumbrous machinery hitherto in use. Parliament had alienated the fund from purposes of ecclesiastical jurisdiction; and therefore, in justice to those who had made the proposal, this salary ought to be given to the Judge out of the Common Fund.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the Bill should be extended to the wider area proposed, and that it should be applicable to all offenders against ecclesiastical doctrine. However, the House of Lords had limited the Bill to its present scope, and even if Her Majesty's Government afforded the House an opportunity of extending the Bill in the way proposed by the Instruction, it was hardly probable that the other House would agree to such an extension. The measure was aimed exclusively at one particular class of offenders. It happened that in the course of his life he was never concerned personally in more than one trial in the Ecclesiastical Courts. That was a suit which he instituted against a clergyman who held ultra-Calvinistic and Supralapsarian doctrines. The clergyman had refused to prepare the children of his parish for confirmation, but the curate did so, and the Bishop confirmed them. Then, the clergyman said, that because they had been confirmed they were doubly children of hell. He was informed that he could not hope to relieve the parish of this clergyman at a less cost than £2,500. That expense he was prepared to incur, but he was informed by the Bishop that if he agreed to pay the clergyman's debts, amounting to £700, he might induce him to resign the living. Accordingly, he paid off the clergyman's debts; but he would ask whether that was a decent condition of the law. That case would have been comprehended in this Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was essential that the Bishops should act in conformity with the law; but as the Bill stood, they might stop the very proceedings they had initiated. He hoped words would be inserted requiring that notice should be given to the parishioners of an intention to apply for an order to alter the fabric of the church.
 MR. HORSMAN  contended that by the Bill the number of parishioners was not limited to three. It simply proposed that three should be the minimum.
 MR. HORSMAN  differed entirely from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken. If this appointment devolved upon the Crown, everybody knew that it would be made by the Prime Minister, and would therefore be a political appointment. Suppose they took a case—not at all a probable one for some years to come—that they had a Ritualistic Prime Minister, who denounced the Act of Uniformity, who threw discredit on the Reformation, who endeavoured by placing Resolutions on the Table—["Oh, oh!"] Hon. Gentlemen called "Oh" because they immediately recognized the probability of what he was suggesting. Supposing they had a Prime Minister who endeavoured to obtain absolute impunity for the most ingenious, audacious, and unscrupulous persons—for those who went further than any one at the present moment had ventured to go in undermining the religion of the country. What would be the result? It was not till the time of Lord Aberdeen that Letters of Business were again issued to Convocation, and it was owing to that action on the part of a Prime Minister that Convocation once more became a difficulty in the way of Parliament. They had already felt very strongly the mischievous effects of this revival, and they had just escaped the danger arising from the fact that a member of the liberal Party had proposed Resolutions which amounted in effect to a complete revolution. A Ritualistic Prime Minister might make the appointment of this Judge in accordance with his own par
 252
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that what they wished was not to give too much power to one churchwarden. If more than one were necessary to make a complaint, unless the two agreed nothing could be done. He thought the Amendment, if carried, would tend to prevent litigation.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that according to the proposed Amendment, parishes would have now power to take proceedings with respect to anything done before a specified time, and he did not think
 260
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War had made a suggestion, and from the manner in which it had been responded to by the right hon. and learned Recorder, he thought the matter might be disposed of in a way that would be agreeable to his right hon. Friend who had moved the Instruction. The right hon. and learned Recorder had consented that the operation of the Act should be put off until July next, a pledge being given that another Bill should be passed before the 1st of July, dealing with the questions raised by the Instruction of his right hon. Friend, so that the two Acts might come into operation together. The question now was, whether the House should pass the Bill in the form in which it had come down from the other House, and wait until next year, with the assurance of the Recorder that he would then introduce a supplementary Bill more carefully con
 218
 MR. HORSMAN  could see no ground for the exemption, and thought the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had given the best of all reasons why there should be no distinction.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he did not wish to see an occasional Judge appointed; but he contended that after two or three years, it would be found he had little to do.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the same Judge was not likely to give conflicting decisions, and after two or three years, practically, the law would be so well understood that no one would venture to appeal. In that case, there would be no difficulty in finding a barrister to perform the duties of the office.
 MR. HORSMAN  hoped his right hon. and learned Friend the Recorder would accept the Amendment.
 MR. HORSMAN  observed, that it was loss of time to re-argue the question involved in the Amendment of the
 236
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that although he was no friend to the Bill, he could not be a party to anything which would make it unworkable, as he believed that Amendment would do.
 COLONEL LEIGH  was quite sure the Wesleyans were not desirous to be put into the position which was now placed before them. If a clergyman could not find three members of his own congregation to proceed against him, he would be in little danger of the pains and penalties of the Bill.
 COLONEL LEIGH  said, the judicial system had broken down in consequence of so much work being put upon the Judges. What he would suggest was that two new Judges should be appointed, and the junior should perform the work of this Bill.  Juniores ad labores
 MR. GOSCHEN  wished to ask, "Whether a day would be given for the discussion of the Fiji question? The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Alderman W. M 'Arthur) had given way to the wish of the House; but he trusted an assurance would be given that before Parliament separated, an opportunity would be afforded for discussing a question of so much importance.
 MR. GOSCHEN  trusted the right hon. and learned Recorder would consider whether it was not absolutely certain that the two Archbishops would appoint a member of the Church of England to hold the office. To suppose that the two Archbishops would appoint anybody not a member of the Church of England was really to imagine something too preposterous. Was it therefore worth while to introduce into the Bill a clause of that description, when hon. Members opposite had fully acknowledged that Judges of all denominations were perfectly impartial? He thought his hon. Friend was quite justified in raising the question, because it was undesirable to introduce an invidious clause into the Bill. He thought no one in that House would wish that the appointment should be held by anybody who was not a member of the Church of England. They ought not to depart from the broad ground of the National Church, which was the strong ground upon which the Bill rested. He was opposed to introducing new tests injudicial appointments at that time of day.
 MR. GOSCHEN  thought there were ample securities in the Bill that the Judge to be appointed should belong to the Church of England, without the use of those words. What he objected to was the introduction of a new test into the Bill.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he should adhere to the words he had proposed. Their insertion could not do any possible harm, and he should like to hear the opinion of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder upon them.
 MR. GOSCHEN  suggested that the number should be "three or more." As security for the payment of costs had to be given when required, he thought it should be left open for the number of persons instituting proceedings to be more than three, if thought necessary, in order to distribute the liability to pay costs. He should therefore move, in the proper place, to insert the words "or more" after the word" three."
 MR. GOSCHEN  moved, as an Amendment, in line 14, to insert after "three," the words" or more."
 MR. GOSCHEN  pointed out that to adopt the Amendment would be in effect to defeat the object of the Bill. Could it be expected that the vicar's churchwarden would take proceedings against the vicar?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the clause, having been constructed upon the basis of non-application to cathedrals, would be imperfect if it remained as it was. It should be amended, either to include or exclude them. He would appeal to the right hon. and learned Recorder to state how he regarded the question—whether as the clause was now altered it placed cathedrals and other churches upon the same footing?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that unless Progress were reported, it would be bettor for all the Amendments on the Paper to be dropped; for the Bill to be allowed to pass through Committee, and for the Amendments to be revived upon the Report. As it was, it would be impossible for that most important Amendment to be discussed at such an hour (twenty minutes past one o'clock.)
 MR. GREGORY  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 11, to leave out from "a barrister" to "has been" in line 13. By the clause as it stood, a barrister of ten years' standing or an ox-Judge would be appointed. He believed that the duties to be performed
 237
 MR. GREGORY  said, he did not think it would be necessary to secure the services of a special Judge for the purposes of the Bill, inasmuch as it would not be necessary for him to hold continuous sittings, and his duties would only be occasional. Ho, therefore, had given Notice of an Amendment to the effect that it might be left to the Archbishop
 227
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that being so, the argument to which he was about to reply when called to Order was extremely irregular.
 MR. SANDFORD  protested against the question of the Mass being introduced into the discussion as it had been by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford. ["Order!"]
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether his attention has been called to the attempt to murder an English gentleman named Clarke, one of the officials of the Telegraph Company in Egypt, and a Mr. Charles Edward Hamilton, another English gentleman who happened to be passing the place where the attack was made upon Mr. Clarke, and who, attracted by his cries and the sound of blows, went to his assistance; whether, if his attention has been called to the circumstance, he can state whether it is true that these two gentlemen were beaten with a Narbote and with sticks for two or three hours, and then were dragged by ropes the distance of a mile to the nearest tree, with the view of being hanged, but that the rope breaking they were dragged on to the village of Sherwida; whether it is true that the band of Arabs committing this outrage was headed by Osman Abassa, the first cousin of the Viceroy of Egypt, son of a Minister of Finance, and Governor of the Land of Goshen, one of the richest provinces in Egypt; whether he has heard that upon reaching the village, Osman Abassa set the whole population upon these two gentlemen, who, bound and almost insensible from blows, were exposed to every conceivable outrage until the arrival of Greek and French armed assistance;
 205
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it was foreign to the intention of the Bill to amend the clause in the manner proposed. The second and third sub-sections limited proceeding to offences which had been committed within a limited time, and if the third sub-section were amended in the way proposed by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, there would practically be no remedy in certain cases, because the irregularity might have existed for 10 or 20 years, and it would include a number of things perfectly legal and proper. It would enable any three persons to complain of matters which had occurred during the previous incumbency, and with which the present incumbent had nothing to do. That must be vexatious in the extreme.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that instead of the proposed Amendment, he would move that the clause be so amended as to read, "any alteration in, or addition to the fabric, ornaments, or furniture thereof, forbidden by law."
 MR. CHILDERS  moved, as an Amendment to the said proposed Amendment, the omission in line 3 of the word "either."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  supposed that there were cathedrals in England as in Ireland which were parish churches. He wished to point out that the clause as it stood could not affect cathedrals, inasmuch as neither the archdeacon, the rural dean, or the churchwardens—the persons through whom the complaint was to be made—had ever had any jurisdiction over cathedrals, which were in their nature "peculiar." He suggested that they should, after the word
 258
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  maintained that the clause ought to be without limitation as to the incumbency of any particular incumbent, and should be guarded by the introduction of the words "forbidden by law" or "unlawfully made."
 MR. DODSON  suggested that the difficulty might be met by an alteration of the wording of the section in question, so as to lay open to proceedings any alteration or addition to the fabric or furniture that might have been unlawfully made, or any decoration forbidden by law.
 MR. DODSON  thought the Committee would do well to adopt the clause
 255
 MR. DODSON  said, the question whether the Bill could be extended from form to substance depended not on the fact of that being the 17th of July, but on the will and pleasure of Her Majesty's Government. If the Government gave their support to his right hon. Friend's Instruction, such an extension could be made, and the Bill passed in the present Session.
 MR. DODSON  believed that this test would not have the effect of preventing persons who were not members of the Church from offensively making complaints as to the manner in which the service was conducted, because it would
 235
 MR. DODSON  said, of course the idea of those who opposed extension was, that if a man were not a member of the Church, he could not find fault with the manner in which the services were conducted. Many persons attended both church and chapel, and such persons would not like to declare themselves members of the Church of England.
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose to Order. He was sorry to interfere, but he wanted to know whether the observations of the right hon. Gentleman ought not to be made in Committee on the Bill rather than at the present stage?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, if those words were retained he should move the insertion of "Wales."
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, the question was who was to make representations to the Bishop in the case of collegiate churches.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT , in seconding the Motion, said, he was afraid that the most able and exhaustive speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London had left him little to say. But one thing he would mention before he sat down. In the Bill, it was proposed to provide a Judge for the purpose to which the Bill related, and that Judge was to have a salary of £3,000 a-year. He did not grudge the salary of £3,000, but, as he had already said, and as he would say again if necessary, he did grudge the source from which that salary would come. As had been said by no less an
 213
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  supported the Amendment, on the ground that a man should not be allowed to disturb the peace of the parish, unless he had lived for some time in it, any more than a man who had not been a Member of that House for a year would be allowed by the public opinion of the House to do anything which would tend to disturb the harmony of the House.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, he thought it very undesirable to make a life appointment to the office in question, for the Judge might have next to nothing to do. He thought the Government ought to state what their opinion was on the question before the Committee.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, that as the Bill stood a churchwarden of what he might call the mother parish, in which parish there were several districts and several churches, might take proceedings which would affect all the churches in the district. That was not a provision
 253
 MR. WALTER  said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for Scarborough (Sir Harcourt Johnstone) seemed to forget that there was a great distinction between the Judge who was to be appointed and the Privy Council or the Court of Appeal. This Judge would take the place of some Ecclesiastical Judge. He was to be paid out of the revenues of the Church, and would possess a distinctly ecclesiastical character as a Judge. But the Court of Appeal was in no sense an ecclesiastical tribunal. It was the highest Court in the land; the Judges were paid out of the national Revenue, and their position was not at all similar to that of the Judge, whose quality and condition they were now discussing. He, for one, regretted that it was necessary to insert words of such a questionable nature in the clause; he lamented it as a disagreeable necessity; but when it was proposed to strike them out, he felt how necessary it was to retain them. It would be obviously impossible for any one not a member of the Church of England to be appointed by the Archbishop as an Ecclesiastical Judge, to be paid out of the revenues of the Church, and for that reason he could see no reasonable objection to the words being retained.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, the question was not settled what a member of the Church of England was. It was a very important question, and one that would have to be settled before long, for there was more difference between Churchmen than between them and Dissenters. He believed the Bill to be a bad Bill, and wished to make it as little objectionable as possible.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he would move to report Progress, and in doing so, would refer to the amount of work which the House had got through during the week. They had sat since 2 o'clock on the previous day, and it was not unreasonable 12 hours afterwards and at the end of the week, to ask the House to report Progress.
 MR. DILLWYN  in moving, as an Amendment, the omission of the words in page 4, from "every" in line 6, to "vacant" in line 10, said, he should like to know upon what grounds it was proposed to revise tests for appointments to offices. Such a proviso only cast a slur upon the Judge. He had no doubt that any Judge who might be appointed, whether Churchman, Dissenter, or Roman Catholic, would be impartial. A Churchman, might, indeed, sympathize with one of the parties in the Church, and it could with some reason be argued that greater impartiality might be looked for in a Dissenter or Roman Catholic. He thought they were all agreed as to the importance of appointing the best possible man as the Judge, but for his part he would rather have seen a full-blown Judge than one selected by the Archbishop. He wished to know from the right hon. and learned Recorder, if he had any reason for requiring that declaration to be made? However, whether they appointed a Churchman, Dissenter, or Roman Catholic Judge, he hoped they would be able to secure as good Judges in future as those now on the Bench.
 MR. DILLWYN  asked whore the money was to come from, if not out of the funds of the Church of England? He protested against its coming from the Common Fund of the country. It should not be forgotten that the Committee had limited the whole operation of the Bill to members of the so-called Church of England.
 MR. DILLWYN , in moving as an Amendment in page 2, line 36, to leave out from "age," to" who," in line 39, protested against that attempt to widen the line of demarcation between Churchmen and Dissenters. According to the Bill, a parishioner meant only a person who had subscribed a solemn declara
 232
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  said, he represented a constituency including a large proportion of Nonconformists, and objected to the test, adding that he noticed indications of a desire to denationalize the Established Church, and make it a Church of a sect. He hoped the right hon. and learned Gentleman would re-consider this matter.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the attention of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs has been called to this case, the facts of which are not, however, correctly represented in the Question. As the transaction in question is of some importance, I have had a statement relating to it drawn up, which I will read to the House. Mr. Clarke and Mr. Hamilton, who were staying with him, were out shooting together near Sher--wida, when the former fired at a squirrel in some maize. The shot wounded a girl, and some Arabs came up and maltreated them. They were taken to the village and there released. The attack was made by the peasantry, not by any relative of the Khedive. General Stanton, Her Majesty's Agent and Consul General, received a telegram the same evening at midnight stating what had occurred, and at 7.30 next morning telegraphed to the Acting Consul at Cairo to attend to the matter. He reported that the local authorities were inquiring into the case and three of the offenders had been arrested. M. Felice, the Acting British Vice Consul at Zagazig, being engaged in watching the proceedings. No time was, therefore lost by the British Consular authorities in seeing that justice was done. Subsequently, the offenders were tried. One was condemned to eight months' hard labour, two others to six months' hard labour, another to three months' imprisonment, another to two months' imprisonment, and the guards of the village to one month's imprisonment. No fine was imposed on the locality. Mr. Hamilton had expressed himself satisfied with the sentences, except with that of the chief offender, and, under the
 206
 MR. LOWE , in rising to move—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee that they have power to make provision for extending the said Bill to all offences by clerks in Holy Orders against the Law Ecclesiastical, and to repeal the Act 3 and 4 Victoria, cap. 8, for better enforcing Church Discipline," Vict 209 Vict quasi 210 211 212
 MR. LOWE  said, after the opinions which had been expressed, and the declaration of the Prime Minister he would not press his Resolution.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, although he agreed with almost the
 214
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he was prepared to state, that if no one else of more importance than himself should propose such a Bill next year, he would be perfectly ready to do so.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he had no particular opinion about the matter. He must, however, oppose the Amendment, on the ground that the services in cathedrals and collegiate churches did not come within the general category of Church services.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  really thought that the title suggested would be more fitting, supposing that the suggestion of the right hon. Member for the University of London had been adopted. He would suggest to his hon. Friend that he should withdraw his Amendment, and raise the question on the Report.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he was asked to give a pledge at once to agree to something in the nature of the proposal of the hon. Member for Gloucester. He was not prepared to give any such pledge, as he did not at present know that the office of Vicar General was one that ought to be continued. In regard to the salary of the Judge, he was the last person in the House who would desire to charge any fund applicable to the improvement of poor livings, and he would not have made the proposal in the form he did, unless he had
 228
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  thought it most important the House should adhere to the arrangement in the Bill for appointing only one Judge, for whoso salary he was afraid there would be some difficulty in making provision. He need not say that if two were to be appointed, that difficulty would be increased. He would also observe that there would be a High Court of Appeal, where the errors of a single Judge might be set right.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, it would be most unreasonable to limit the operation of the Act in the manner proposed by the Amendment, which he hoped would not receive the support of the Committee. There was no fear more groundless than that entertained
 233
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, that the Dean of Arches and Master of the Faculties would be obliged to sign a declaration that he was a Member of the Church of England.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, great inconvenience had arisen from the Judge having duties to perform in the Admiralty Courts, besides those which belonged to the Ecclesiastical Court. The consequence was, that a large portion of the business in the latter Court was delayed. He agreed that there were difficulties to contend with; but they would arise more properly on the latter part of the clause. At the same time he did not think it desirable, when they wanted the best possible Judge, that they should exclude the largest class from which the selection could be made.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he was willing to defer to the general
 242
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, if the right hon. Gentleman had waited a few minutes he would have himself proposed this alteration. At an early stage of their proceedings that day he had mentioned that he had considerable doubts on the point, and that nothing would induce him to trespass upon the Common Fund, unless he was satisfied that every penny of it would be recouped. He thought the simplest plan would be to leave the new Judge as filling the office of the Judge of the Arches Court, the principal officer of the Chancery Court of York, and the Master of the Faculties; and, until some further legislation took place, he thought that had bettor remain so.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, six months would not be sufficient, because the archdeacon ought to have time to receive information.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY said, he would be glad to adopt the words "unlawfully made."
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  thought it very undesirable to exclude fabrics from the operation of the Bill.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  thought that the words would do no harm, but certainly they would do no good.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he certainly intended to adhere to the word "three." First of all, when the Bill was introduced, "one" was inserted; but the question was submitted to Convocation, and they altered the number to "three," and they did not insist upon resident householders.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 4, line 19, after the word "made," to insert" during the incumbency of the incumbent," said, the effect of it would be to exempt from the operation of the Bill alterations or additions made without a faculty during that period.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, the question had come upon him by surprise, and any other Member of the Committee was competent as he to interpret the provision. He thought, however, the difficulty might be removed, when they reached the 16th clause.
 MR. HOLLAND  asked the Post-master General, Whether any steps have been taken towards facilitating the transmission and delivery of letters in the Dolgelly Postal District?
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, the omission, in line 23, of the Proviso—" Such Judge shall be  ex officio
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  expressed the opinion that, within three years or so nearly all, if not all, the questions that would come up for decision under the Act would be disposed of, and that altogether there would not be more than 10 or a dozen. That being the probability, he held that it would inspire great confidence in the public mind, if they could have a person taken from the existing judicial staff to execute the provisions of the Bill. They must have a person who was independent, who had considerable judicial experience, and who was capable of deciding such important questions as those which might arise under the Bill. Unless they had a thoroughly competent Judge nothing but dissatisfaction would arise. 238
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  supported the Amendment, as it was undesirable to increase the number of those who might be termed honorary Members of the Commission. He hoped that the Committee, in accepting the proposal, would not pledge themselves to the selection of a "specialist," which in an Ecclesiastical Court was to be avoided.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  expressed agreement with the last speaker.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, he must decidedly oppose the Amendment as unnecessary.
 MR. CORDES  thought the churchwardens, and not the incumbent, should be made responsible for any illegality with regard to the fabric or the furniture.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  suggested that the clause should be restored to its original shape.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that it was not because his right hon. Friend the Member for Greenwich had withdrawn his Resolutions, that the House should be taken to have discussed the principle they involved. He could not think that the country would be satisfied if at half-past one o'clock in the
 267
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that two most important questions were brought before the House by the Instruction of
 219 220
 MR. FORSYTH  pointed out that the Judges were already fully occupied, and that their number would be reduced under the operation of the Judicature Act. Under these circumstances, the effect of the Amendment would be to cause a deadlock. If a Judge were appointed at £3,000 a-year, and the business of the Court did not occupy his whole time, he could assist the other Judges, and thus give work enough for the salary, besides strengthening the existing judicial staff.
 MR. FORSYTH  thoroughly agreed that the words in question ought not to remain in the Bill.
 MR. TORRENS  moved, as an Amendment, in page 4, line 14, to leave out "three," and insert "twelve." He thought three was too small a number of parishioners entitled to take steps to put the machinery of the Bill into operation.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he was so anxious that the Bill should pass that he had put no Amendments on the Paper; but he had always entertained a strong opinion on the nomination of this Judge by any other authority than the supreme authority in this country, the Head of the Church—that was the Crown. He would now ask the right hon. and learned Recorder to consider the question before the Report; and he would put an Amendment on the Paper providing that the nomination of this Judge should be in the Crown. Most of them had in various capacities solemnly declared their adherence to the principle, that the Sovereign of these Realms was in all causes, ecclesiastical as well as civil, in these Her Dominions supreme. He thought that it would be most mischievous and dangerous to encourage the idea that there was any difference between causes ecclesiastical and civil as regarded their mode of treatment. The responsibility of such an appointment as the one in question ought to rest on the Sovereign under the advice of her responsible Ministers, and the proposal was in no way inconsistent with the vote at which they had arrived, while it would avoid the scandal which would ensue if the appointment were left in abeyance, owing to the two Archbishops not being able to agree upon an appointment. He therefore gave Notice that on the bringing up of the Report he should move an Amendment to that effect.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, Her Majesty was in terms of the statute of the 1st of Elizabeth "Supreme Governor of the Church," a distnction which he confessed was of a somewhat feminine character. He would, however, correct his phrase, and say that the Supreme Governor of the Church was the proper person to appoint this ecclesiastical Judge.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he could not see why additions to the fabric of the church, ornaments, or alterations of any kind should be continued if they were illegal. He trusted that the right hon. and learned Recorder would leave the clause as it stood.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, that the object of the clause was to prevent an incumbent from putting up a high altar in place of a Communion table, and therefore he did not think the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman necessary.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, that the Committee having determined that "cathedral" meant "church" in the Interpretation Clause, it would be entirely inconsistent with their recent decision to insert cathedrals in the clause. If the proposed Amendment were made, there would be no necessity for retaining the 16th clause.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  asked, why they were to be householders. Very often the curate was not a householder. Why was a parishioner to be disqualified because he was a lodger?
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he could not concur in the view just expressed by his right hon. Friend, and for this reason—that the question before the Committee was not a new one. It was, in point of fact, that which was in the fourth of the six Resolutions of his right hon. Friend the Member for Greenwich. Was it to be said that if the parish wished the minister to perform the Mass the performance of the mass was therefore to be regarded as legal? If that were so, the parishioners, and not the Legislature, would be the makers of the law.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  hoped the Mover of the Amendment would allow it to stand over.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment. If a man came into a parish and found the incumbent violating the law, he had as good a right to complain as if he had been in the parish three years. He also thought it was going rather too far to say that when a man found objectionable practices going on he should not be allowed to complain of them for three years.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, what was wanted was a first-rate Judge, and they were going to offer him a situation in which the salary would depend in a great degree upon the income
 245
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, that if what was meant was that that Judge should absorb the Diocesan Courts of England and Wales as vacancies arose, that was, he thought, a very reasonable proposition.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he quite agreed that the question about the Judge was one of the most important parts of the Bill. The country would judge of the earnestness of the work the Committee was about, by the manner in which they decided the question of the appointment of the Judge. If the Committee adopted the idea that that was a small affair, and that there would be nothing for the Judge to do, the public would imagine that it was not intended that the Bill should be efficiently put in action. If, however, they intended it to be a Bill which was to declare the law of the land as applicable to the Parliamentary State Church, that matter ought to be dealt with in a serious manner and under the authority of a Judge competent to deal with such matters. When they talked of the enormous salary of £3,000, did they suppose that the Church of England, with its enormous endowments, was not able to provide the means of paying the salary of a Judge to enforce the law for the benefit of its own clergy and its own people? He could not entertain the idea for a moment that the Church of England could not provide the means. It was said that the Judge would have little to do; but he was not so sure of that, and, at all events, he hoped the Committee would not think that a used-up Judge—a Judge who had retired from the Bench on account of his inability to carry on judicial work—should be appointed to carry out the measure. They ought to appoint a first-rate man and give him an adequate salary; and if they found, on
 239
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  also expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Swansea would not press his Amendment. If the Bill went forth to the public with the assumption that the Judge might or might not be a Nonconformist, it would not work.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  urged the expediency of going at once into Committee. The proper time for discussing the question raised as to the new Judge was when the clause relating to it was brought forward, and that would he on the 7th clause. The question was, no doubt, a very important one, for it was most desirable that the decisions of the tribunal about to be created should carry the utmost weight with them in the country, and he hoped the matter would be dealt with from that point of view.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  suggested that the difficulty might be got rid of by having no short title. A short title was not wanted
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  supported the Amendment, maintaining that the difference of service was no sufficient ground for exemption. He could not see why services under the deans and chapters should be privileged; cleans and chapters were bound to obey the law as well as the clergy who ministered in parish churches.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  thought that no harm could come from the omission of the words, as the 16th clause provided machinery for dealing with cathedral and collegiate churches. He submitted that the word "incumbent" would not be applicable to a collegiate church at all.
 MR. WAIT  said, his objection to Clause 6 was, that it gave laymen no power whatever. They could initiate proceedings against parochial clergymen, but not against the clergy of a cathedral or a collegiate church.
 MR. WAIT  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 21, to leave out "other than a cathedral or collegiate church."
 MR. WAIT  observed, that after such an overwhelming expression of opinion, the question ought not to have been revived.
 MR. WAIT , in moving an Amendment, said, he did so for the purpose of giving effect to the Resolution to which the Committee had come during the morning sitting, bringing cathedrals within the scope of the Bill. He proposed that the requisition of three inhabitants of the diocese, addressed to the Bishop, should have the same effect as the requisition of three parishioners in the case of a parish church.
 MR. GOLDNEY  did not see any necessity for those words. He thought they would tend to cast a reflection upon the three people who were willing to make the representation, and for that reason, he thought the Committee ought to adhere to the number "three."
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that any legal rights then possessed by Wesleyans and other Dissenters were not proposed to be taken away by the Bill. It was simply to give facility of procedure.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, the effect of the Amendment would be to build up a new system of ecclesiastical law, which they did not wish to do by a side-wind. If the Judge was to be occupied by all sorts of diocesan, he would not be available for his own special business.
 MR. GOLDNEY  contended that though the clause under discussion dealt with the subject of the interpretation of terms, it was different from an ordinary
 231
 MR. GOLDNEY  submitted that the matter now before them ought to be discussed, not at this stage, but in Committee.
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE  supported the Amendment. If those words were retained, the obvious inference would be that the Church was resolved to carry things her own way, in conformity with the views of the small sect to which, in his opinion, she would be reduced in a few years' time. He thought that as the Imperial Court of Appeal did not necessarily consist of Churchmen, it was absurd to require that the Judge of the Court of First Instance should be a Churchman.
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE  replied, that before a parishioner could make a complaint, he would have to make a solemn declaration that he was a "Member of the Church of England as by law established."
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE  wished to protest in the strongest language against the new test created by
 234
 MR. SPEAKER  ruled that the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman were quite relevant to the question before the House.
 SIR HENRY DRUMMOND WOLFF  also thought three far too small for large parishes. He appealed to the right hon. and learned Recorder as to whether he could not introduce some Amendment on the Report, on the principle of a sliding scale, so that an incumbent might be secure against vexatious interference.
 SIR JOHN KENNAWAY  thought that the Dissenting Bodies could not expect the House to go out of its way to give them privileges for litigation. He considered that it was only fair to the clergymen that the test should be imposed, because it would not be right that persons not being actually members of the Church should be entitled to make a representation.
 MR. MOWBRAY  hoped they would get through the Committee on the Bill to-night; but with that view, it was very desirable that their time should not be taken up with unnecessary discussion.
 MR. MOWBRAY  remarked that the lay Members were sufficiently numerous, but they hardly ever took part in the deliberations of the Commission. There were already persons nominated specially who were likely to strengthen the lay element in ecclesiastical procedure, as they were persons of large experience. Amongst them were the Lord Chief Baron and the Lord Chief Justice.
 MR. MOWBRAY  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, that there would be a real economy of the time of the House in obtaining the opinions of hon. Members on the question at once. With regard to the appointment of a retired Judge, it had been the common practice to swear in a retiring Judge as a member of the Judicial Committee, and in that capacity he gave a great deal of time to the performance of judicial duties. There were at present three retired Lord Chancellors—Lord Chelmsford, Lord Hatherley, and Lord Selborne, each of whom might be ready to give up his time; and he was sure, in that event, that no one could perform the duties in a more satisfactory manner. Why, then, should a sum of £3,000 a-year be paid when able services of a retired Judge might be obtained for a sum of £1,000 or £1,500 a year.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  observed that in some parishes there was but one churchwarden. In such districts, if the Amendment were adopted, the Bill would be inoperative.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  believed that if the Committee came to a decision upon the subject at that time, it would save a great deal of time hereafter.
 VISCOUNT SANDON : Sir, the Education Department will furnish to the managers of any school who forward a list of children on whose account certificates are required under the 11th section of the Agricultural Children Act, a statement of the results of the examination of such children in the Fourth and higher Standards. The Department examines only those children who attend public elementary schools in receipt of annual grants. In districts under school boards
 207 s d
 MR. GATHORNE HAEDY , in reply, said, that, according to the statement in question, which appeared in a letter in  The Western Daily Mercury 294
 COLONEL JERVIS  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether during the Recess he will kindly take into his consideration the case of the nonpayment of their rank to Majors of Artillery now serving in India, a large proportion of whom are Officers of the Old Royal Artillery who have had to proceed to that country under orders from the War Department, and represent their case to the Indian Office?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he was happy to say that he did not think it would be necessary during the Recess to pay much attention to this subject, because he believed an arrangement with regard to it had been entered into which would, he thought, be quite satisfactory to his hon. and gallant Friend.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, he regretted that he was unable to give a favourable Answer to the hon. Member and the other Members who had waited on him with a deputation. After full consideration, he had decided it was not expedient to interfere with the orders of progress of the Ordnance Survey, as laid down by the War Office and confirmed by his Predecessor at the Office of Works.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, it was true the abandonment of annual International Exhibitions would leave a large amount of space available for some of our national collections; and it would appear from the Papers before Parliament that it was his intention to propose to Her Majesty's Government a scheme which, if it were agreed to, would enable him to offer the Patent Museum suitable accommodation in the southern block of the Exhibition buildings.
 MR. ALDERMAN W.M' ARTHUR  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, What day he can fix for the discussion on Fiji, in accordance with the promise given on behalf of the Government on Friday night?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the money would be applied to the promotion of music, the purchase of books, and the providing of recreation for the Militia, and he hoped that by that means, drunkenness in the Militia would be decreased.
 THE CLERK  read the Petition, which set forth that the Petitioners viewed with alarm and regret certain provisions in the Endowed Schools Acts Amendment Bill, and prayed that it might not pass into law.
 MR. JAMES  regretted that the hon. Member for Chippenham, as a lawyer, had not explained the 4th clause, which was so extremely complicated and difficult as to be to a layman almost incomprehensible. For instance, on the question what evidence should be admitted as to founders' wishes, the provisions of the clause seemed likely to lead to misconception and dispute. In his opinion, they ought not to look at specific words, but to take the drift of the founder's meaning; to consider the period at which the foundation was made; and see if they could not adapt it to the necessities of modern times. He should not have addressed the House, had he not been engaged some years ago in framing a scheme for one of the largest endowed schools in England—Christ's Hospital—with reference to which he wished to point out that,
 342 343
 SIR CHARLES FOR STER  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he wished to put a plain, straightforward question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. Many hon. Friends of his had voted for the introduction of the Bill; but before they continued the subject, they wished to know what was really the object of the Government. The 4th and 5th clauses of the Bill each contained the expression "any particular church, sect, or denomination," and in connection with the word "any," they wished to know whether, under those clauses, schools which had been founded by Roman Catholics would be given over for the education of children of that faith. There were 72 endowed schools which belonged to the Catholics, and there were 49 Roman Catholic Members who voted diversely on the second reading, and whose votes would now be influenced by the reply of the Ministry.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he should like to know when the Government
 379
 MR GLADSTONE  said, he had listened to the letter with great satisfaction; but he could not understand why it had not been produced, and he should therefore give Notice, that he would move to-morrow for the production of the document.
 MR. SULLIVAN  observed that the fact of proceeding with the Bill at half-past I o'clock in the morning, when very few hon. Members knew anything whatever about it, illustrated the inconvenience under which Irish Members laboured in dealing with important measures affecting Ireland.
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL , in reply, said, that the Reports with regard to other countries were of a confidential character; but that it was pretty generally known that the four principal Powers had either adopted the breech-loading principle, or were about to do it. The expenditure in this country during the present year on muzzle-loading guns, including equipments, would be about £40,000.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  in seconding the Amendment, said, nothing would have induced him, at this period of the Session, to put himself forward, if it had not been for the great importance and unusual character of this Bill. Of the 40 years he had been in this House, he had sat 30 years on the Ministerial benches, and he thought it quite fair the other party should have their turn now, and that his own party should bear their defeat and its consequences with philosophy. For his own part, he did so, but he had to complain that in passing the present measure, the House of Commons would be undoing the policy of the late Government, which received from Parliament very general acceptance. In the case of other measures, such as that for the abolition of Church-rates, which hon. Gentlemen opposite had resisted in that House, what was the course which they had pursued? Why, that when they came into office, they allowed those measures to pass unopposed, inducing the other House to give to them its assent. He wished they had taken a similar course in the present instance, instead of indulging in a re-actionary policy. He objected to the Bill before the House very strongly on four grounds. He thought it most unfortunate that a measure of such im-
 315 316 317
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether by a new Regulation
 299
 MR. MACDONALD  said, that considering the large number of Members upon that side of the House who were desirous of speaking he would move the adjournment of the House. The country ought also to have a chance of considering the measure.
 MR. MACDONALD  said, he would withdraw his Motion on condition that the debate was continued to-morrow—Tuesday.
 MR. ALDERMAN W. M'ARTHUR  having moved accordingly,
 MR. ALDERMAN W. M'ARTHUR  presented a Petition from the Wesleyan Body, and was proceeding to read the same, when—
 MR. MUNDELLA  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government is aware that, owing to the want of space and suitable accommodation, the Patent Museum is losing constant opportunities of acquiring models of original inventions of the greatest interest to the Country; and, whether the Government is prepared to take immediate steps to provide a suitable building for the Museum, which is capable of being made one of the most valuable schools of instruction in mechanical science in the world?
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, it was with the greatest regret he had heard the speech in which the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council had moved the second reading of the Bill. He altogether denied for himself that he had any desire to make political capital out of the question, or that the Liberal party opposed the measure in order to get up a rallying cry. He for one had lost some political capital by his adherence to his educational principles, and had not the right hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Forster) been charged with sacrificing his own party on the educational question? If any party was obnoxious to such a charge, it was the occupants of the benches opposite. ["No, no!"] What other motive could they have for introducing such a measure as that? No definite charge had been brought against the Endowed Schools Commissioners, who were taunted with being unpopular, because they had interfered in cases of abuse, injustice, jobbery, and corruption. The cry of unpopularity had been raised  ad nauseam 358 "He was the mildest-mannered man That ever scuttled ship or cut a throat." 359 360
 CAPTAIN BEDFORD PIM  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, If he will state to the House by what authority Rear Admiral Randolph, C.B., command-
 297
 MR. DISRAELI : I am very sorry, Sir, to say that the Patent Museum is not the only public institution which is suffering from want of space and of suitable accommodation. That is now a crying grievance with respect to all our public buildings, collections, and offices. In regard to the Patent Museum, however, I perceive another Question on the Paper, and I am aware from a communication which I have received from my noble Friend the First Commissioner of Works, that the matter is at present engaging attention.
 MR. DISRAELI , in reply, said, that he could not fix a day for a discussion on Fiji, but he had no doubt that the hon. Gentleman would have several opportunities before the House was prorogued—for instance, on the Appropriation Bill—of bringing on that discussion.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he had indicated to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth, a certain mode by which he could bring the question before the House.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that some hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed hardly to be sufficiently aware that if they succeeded in defeating the passing of that Bill by time, the only effect would be that the Commission would expire, and the fondest hopes of those who held probably the most ultra opinions antagonistic to those of the hon. Member who made the last Motion would not be dissatisfied with that result. He thought that the Commission was necessary, and that the prudent provisions which the Government had introduced to the notice of the House would render its action extremely beneficial. However, in regard to the Motion last proposed, he was not at all inclined to enter into any controversy on the subject. He did not object to the discussion being adjourned, and it would be resumed to-morrow. Probably the hon. Gentleman was not aware that the Motion he had made would stop all Public Business, if carried, and he trusted therefore that he would withdraw it.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think, Sir, the debate has been sufficiently exhausted, and that we can now come to a division upon it. I should say the question of the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Sullivan) is one that had better be discussed in Committee. The hon. Member wishes to know whether the intentions of Roman Catholic founders would be respected since the Reformation. [Mr. SULLIVAN: Before the Reformation.] That would involve us in a question which is not unfamiliar to the House—the continuity of the English Church, and which cannot be discussed on a Motion for Adjournment. As a general principle, the intentions of Roman Catholic founders would be respected; I suppose there cannot be any doubt of that. With respect to the Motion before us, I think we ought not to adjourn. Considering the period of the Session, I think the Motion will not commend itself to the House and I must oppose it.
 MR. DISRAELI  moved that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow (Tuesday).
 MR. DISRAELI : I am sorry to say that there is no Report in existence. There is a note, which I have seen for the first time this evening. It is extremely brief, and the right hon. Gentleman can have the pleasure of reading it behind the Speaker's Chair.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I am not at all surprised that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford should defend the Commissioners, seeing that he recommended the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council, the other night, to retain them, because he had found them to be very useful tools. No doubt, that was a high recommendation; but it does not follow that the noble Lord is bound to accept the recommendation, unless he is to believe that the Commissioners are not the men of principle which the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) has described them to be, and would be as ready tools for his policy as they have been for that of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford. The position of the noble Lord seems to me to be this—he is about to repeal certain words in the original Act, in order to make the present Bill conformable to the sense of the late Government, since the Act of 1869 did not justify the conduct of the late Government or the Commissioners. Why, one great cause of the unpopularity of the Commission throughout, has been that the country felt that the Commissioners had exceeded the powers which were given them by Parliament, and were too much inclined to act in accordance with the views of the hon. Member for Hackney, who appears to be opposed to religious education. That was the principal gravamen of the accusation brought against them; and now the noble Lord comes forward to bend the
 329 330
 MR. PLUNKET  hoped the Committee would proceed with the discussion of the clauses.
 MR. LEATHAM : My hon. Friend the Member for Chippenham (Mr. Goldney) has laboured hard to show that the Bill makes no material change in the law, because it simply defines Clause 19. I think my hon. Friend's argument would do honour to the distinguished profession of which he is an ornament. The Bill makes no material change, because by defining Clause 19, it sweeps nine-tenths of the endowed schools of the country into the net of one particular denomination. Now, the noble Lord the Vice President has made some concessions this evening; but can any hon. Member really say what his concessions amount to? Until we see what they are in black and white, we are scarcely in a position to say whether they are concessions at all, and it is therefore almost impossible to continue the debate. I would suggest that the proper course would be that the debate should be adjourned, in order that the
 344 "The suggestion which I should make," said Mr. Roby," if the thing were entirely at my own disposal, would he to omit Section 19 from the Act altogether; and I should do so on the principle that it is the one clause in the Art which directly refers to the founder's intentions, and which attributes to his intentions, however long ago he may have lived, the right of prescribing the religious character of the school to which his endowment applied." "I believe the time will come," says Lord Lyttelton, "when it will be held to be one of the strangest superstitions ever entertained, that a dying man is to have the power of directing for all future ages what is to he done with his property." "I would extend the provisions of the section) by providing that wherever the intention of the founder was distinctly and in full view of the existence of other denominations than his own, to limit the religious teaching to a particular denomination in that ease, the foundation should fall under the section." 345 "In a case where there may be no express words in the foundation, but where, through a long course of time, a school has been connected with a certain denomination, would you hold that to he a sufficient indication of the intention and a sufficient reason for maintaining this connection?" "I think it immediately becomes a question whether it is not an usurpation on the part of those who have for that length of time held the endowment, if it appears that it was not originally intended for them." va victis 346
 MR. E. J. REED  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, as the Commissioners have for the future abandoned annual International Exhibitions at South Kensington, the Government will be willing to give early and favourable consideration to the proposal to transfer the Patent Office Museum from its present place to the southern block and adjacent portions of the Exhibition buildings?
 MR. DIXON  said, he entirely repudiated the definition of the Birmingham scheme which had been put forward by the hon. Member for North Warwick-
 331 332 333 ex officio ex officio ex officio 334 liber 335 336 337 338 339
 MR. FINCH  said, he rose to complain that the Endowed Schools Commissioners, whenever they meant to attack a school, sent down their assistant Commissioners to the locality, and collected all manner of reports to the prejudice of the school. In one instance in Lincolnshire, they so disgusted the head master of a school that he resigned immediately, and for four years the Governors had been unable to obtain a successor. The Commission had been a most one-sided body, and had made the disestablishment of the Church in these schools their main object. He was most anxious that the Bill should pass.
 MR. GOSCHEN  hoped a reply would be given to the Question of his right hon. Friend as to the Report of the Charity Commissioners.
 MR. HUNT : Sir, Admiral Randolph ordered the Courts Martial by authority of a warrant which he held from the Lords of the Admiralty: he did not obtain the sanction and concurrence of the Commander-in-Chief on the station. The charge on which Admiral Randolph was tried was framed by order of the Board of Admiralty. If the hon. Member will move for the Minutes of the Courts Martial they shall be laid on the Table.
 MR. MELLY  said, that at that late hour he did not wish to make a speech, but he would appeal to the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who intended, he believed, to follow in the debate, to tell the House the exact wishes of the Government in regard to the exclusion or non-exclusion of the entire Nonconformist Body from the Governing Bodies of these 540 schools. The noble Lord the Vice President of the Council must know that unless at least one-third of the managers
 361
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, he wished to congratulate both the House and the noble Lord the Vice-President of the Council on the altered tone of his speech that evening. In his former speech, for the first time, he had brought into these educational debates, a spirit of sectarian animosity which it had been the great object of his right hon. Friend near him to avoid. On the present occasion the noble Lord had made some amends for his former speech, but that alteration was rather in form, than in substance. The noble Lord spoke of concession, but as his Amendment was not laid on the Table, he (Mr. Shaw Lefevre) could not very distinctly speak to it. As he understood, the effect would be that in certain excepted cases, it would be competent to the Charity Commissioners, where the
 351 352 353 354 355
 MR. FAWCETT  said, it would be impossible for the debate to be continued unless the document was produced. The Bill was so important that hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House were determined not to let it go into Committee, unless every element which could enable them to come to a decision was laid before the House. They would, therefore, resist the progress of the Bill until the letter was produced.
 MR. FAWCETT  asked the Vice President of the Council, If he will state to the House how many schemes of the Endowed Schools Commissioners have been approved by the Committee of Council on Education since the present Government came into office, how many have been disapproved, and how many are awaiting decision; and, whether the Government have ascertained how many schools, and which schools will, under Clause 4 of the Endowed Schools Acts Amendment Bill, be exempted from the operation of the 17th and 18th Clauses of the Endowed Schools Act of 1869, which provide for persons not being disqualified for acting as members of the governing body of schools on account of their religious opinions, and for the head master not being necessarily in holy orders?
 MR. FAWCETT , in moving, as an Amendment—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is inexpedient to sanction a measure which will allow any one religious Body to control schools that were thrown open to the whole nation by the policy of the last Parliament," 304 305 306 roué 307 308 from the Ministerial Benches The Times 309 "The Bill is, to say the least, an extraordinary production, for which it is difficult, if not absolutely impossible, to find a precedent. Mr. Hardy goes back to the Restoration of 1660 to discover something like it. Ministries have come into office before on Conservative principles, but they have wisely refrained from reversing the previous policy of Parliament, and have been content to keep things as they found them. … It may be possible to carry by a majority of 80 or of 90 the second reading of a Bill proposing this wholesale re-delivery to one religious body of schools which, founded for national purposes and endowed with national property, have been set free for the use and education of all Englishmen; but it must be obvious to every Conservative who reflects upon the matter that it must be a fatal victory. There are occasions when numbers have none of the reality of strength, and this is one of them." "The common sense of the English people will not follow Mr. Hardy in vindicating the reactionary character of the Government Bill by likening it to the accession of Elizabeth or to the restoration of Charles II., and the forced character of this defence, is, indeed, the strongest evidence of the impolicy of the measure."—[ The Times
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that in that case, he would only observe that the Bill had been described, by an authority which hon. Members opposite would respect, as one of the worst measures of modern times, and what made it worse was the speech by which it was introduced. He had met many men during the last few days who had been as strong in their support of the Establishment as hon. Gentlemen opposite, and who declared that if the Church was to assert claims which would be fatal to the cause of education, there was no other alternative for them but to go in for disestablishment. ["Hear, hear!"] Hon. Gentlemen opposite might make light of the threat, and might further congratulate themselves on the fact that the Liberals were a disorganized and disunited party. Would they now say that the Liberal party was a disorganized and disunited party? The Petition which had been read at the Table showed hon. Gentlemen opposite that they had turned against themselves a powerful section of their fellow-countrymen who in days past had been the strongest allies of the Conservative Party, and he asked, would they be sitting on the Benches which
 310 311 312 quasi 313 "Those intentions should he literally interpreted in order to adapt them to the requirements of the age."—[3  Hansard 314
 MR. RICHARD  supported the Adjournment. Surely another night was not too much to ask for the discussion of a question in which Nonconformists were so deeply interested. The Non-
 377
 MR. BUTT , in moving "That the Chairman do report Progress," said, that no explanation had been given as to the effect of the Bill, and he had received representations to the effect that it would altogether alter the system
 381
 MR. BUTT  said, he must decline to discuss the provisions of the Bill. All he wanted was, that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland should give the inhabitants of the North of that country some opportunity of considering the subject.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Surveyor General of the Ordnance, If he can inform the House whether any or all of the four Chief Military Powers of Europe have determined to discontinue the manufacture of field guns which load at the muzzle; and, what will be the probable cost incurred by the manufacture of muzzle-loading field guns, with the accompanying stores and ammunition, during the present financial year?
 COLONEL NORTH  asked the Secretary of State for War, If anything has been decided as to what is to be done with the money which has been stopped for drunkenness in the Militia?
 MR. O'CLERY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the Government have received official information relative to the disturbance which took place on the 21st of June in the square of St. Peter's at Rome, during which a tumultuous mob is reported to have approached the Vatican, uttering cries and threats against the Sovereign Pontiff; and, in the event of the Government having received such official intelligence, to ask that it be laid before Parliament?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, the Bill was rendered necessary by the Irish Church Act, since the passing of which it was doubtful whether the Bishop of Derry could exercise patronage, in regard to the head mastership of the school at Derry, which he undoubtedly could before that time. The present Bishop was willing to give up his doubtful right; and after consultation with the representatives of all parties interested, a Governing Body had been decided upon, and that was the alteration to which the Bill was intended to give legal effect. There was no opposition, for all parties concerned fully approved of the scheme.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir,. mention is made in a Despatch received from the Secretary of Legation, of a disturbance which occurred in the square of St. Peter's on the occasion referred to by the hon. Member. It does not, however, appear to have been of a serious character, and no mention is made of threats directed against the Pope. There is no objection to lay the Despatch on the Table, should the hon. Member require it; but it contains very little more than will be found in the newspapers.
 MR. BOURKE : No, Sir; there is no new regulation to the effect suggested. A regulation was agreed upon between the late Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and the Board of Treasury by which two years' service in unhealthy climates was to count as three in calculating the pensions for the consular service. That is in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee of the House of Commons on the Diplomatic and Consular Services. The regulation is intended to meet the consular case of officers stationed for considerable periods at particularly unhealthy places. It was not recommended by the Committee for the Diplomatic Service, whose members are not as a rule stationed at places to which it would apply.
 MR. BOURKE : I am well aware, Sir, that this is a subject about which much interest is taken both in this House and in the country. The hon. Member for Fife has had a Notice of Motion on the subject upon the Paper for some time, but has not had an opportunity of bringing it forward. Had he done so, I should have availed myself of the opportunity of showing the hon. Member that I am quite alive to the interest which is taken by all classes of the English public in the suppression of the slave trade. The Treaty which was made last year, if it is not all that we could desire, has had certainly a good effect; and I think the acknowledgments of the country are due to the Sultan of Zanzibar for signing that Treaty. We have no reason to think that the Sultan is anxious to recede from the engagements imposed upon him by that instru-
 295 London Flying Fish Egeria 296
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, early in the Session I promised the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) to endeavour to obtain the information mentioned by my hon. Friend, and place that information in the Library of the House. But my hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire has had a Motion for an Address to the Crown on the subject upon the Paper ever since; and, until that Motion is disposed of, or taken off, I have thought it more respectful to the House and to the hon. Member to refrain from placing the information in the Library which I had conditionally promised.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the Bill was one of the most obscure and difficult that had ever come under his cognizance,
 370 371 372 373 374 â outrance Vœ victis 375 376
 MR. HOLLAND  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has arranged any plan for completing the Survey of the County of Merioneth, in accordance with the washes expressed by the deputation who lately waited upon him?
 MR. ALDERMAN COTTON  said, he rose not so much to support the Bill as to vindicate the Corporation of London and the City Guilds, the members of which were men of integrity, who might be trusted honourably to carry out any beneficent purpose. It was by mere accident, and owing to the great rise in the value of property, that they found themselves in possession of large accumulations at the time the Endowed Schools Commissioners were appointed; and the Haberdashers' Company were preparing a scheme for the management of their foundations prior to the formation of the Commission. He hoped that the Bill before the House would be agreed to, for in his opinion it was a good measure; and he further believed that the abolition of the Endowed Schools Commissioners would be a great source of satisfaction to the whole country.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he had not known one scheme in which a considerable number of the members of the old Governing Body had not been retained.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that after listening attentively, he was unable to perceive that the concession offered by the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council would make any alteration in the Bill. He (Mr. Forster) understood that the noble Lord proposed to insert clauses under which the Commissioners, in certain cases, would not be obliged to appoint as Governors members of one particular Church. He never supposed that the original Bill meant that they should be so compelled; but he supposed that it would provide, even with these alterations, that when there were no Dissenters upon the Governing Body, none would be admitted. Such an arrangement had been found to be so unjust and so disadvantageous to education in the Act of 1869, that a Proviso was inserted, that the Commissioners should be obliged to insert a clause preventing the co-optative Governors from acting in that way, and directing that religious opinions were not to affect the qualifications of the Governing Body. The clause in question was one of the most important in the Bill, and the House was placed at a disadvantage in not having the Amendments before it, and he imagined that the noble Lord had inadvertently omitted to move the adjournment of the debate, in order that they might know exactly the nature of the measure before them. Everything depended upon the exact words of the Amendment proposed. So far as he could understand, they had no meaning; but if the noble Lords' comment upon them was correct, they would mean a great deal. The noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War had endeavoured to make him (Mr. Forster) and the late Government accomplices in the exclusion of Dissenters, and they had been told that Clause 4 of the present Bill was naturally deduced from the principle laid down in the Act of 1869. But he appealed to any Member of the Select Committee which considered the Bill of 1869, to say whether more than one or two Members of the Committee would have voted for anything approaching the exceptions now to be made. They wished at that time to arrive at the founder's wish in regard to schools which had al-
 327 328
 MR W. E. FORSTER  said, the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was an important one, and it would have an effect upon hon. Members of the House. It was to the effect that the Charity Commissioners were willing to undertake the duties specified in the Bill, and that they hoped to be able to do so with advantage. If the statement was worth making, it was surely worth while to have the document upon which it was based before the House.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he had no wish to prevent the Bill proceeding, but would suggest that the discussion on it should not be resumed to-morrow, which had been already allotted to another important question. They ought to be allowed another day to consider the alterations which the Government proposed to make in their measure.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  thought the argument was much stronger in favour of the adjournment of the debate than of its continuance. In the first place an hon. Gentleman who had the confidence of the Roman Catholic Members stated that there existed an uncertainty among them as to the course they should take on the Bill, and asked a question of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, and certainly he did not get a very definite answer. That in his opinion was one reason why the debate should be adjourned; but there was another reason. The noble Lord the Vice President of the Council made a speech that evening, in which he announced his intention of bringing forward an Amendment which would satisfy the objections put forward by the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett), and the Nonconformists; but they had not yet seen it. Then, again, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not answer the question put to him by the hon. Member for Stoke, but gave an explanation entirely different from that of the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council. Under these circumstances, he (Mr. Forster) submitted the House ought to see what the words of the proposed Amendment really were, before they came to a vote. But there was another circumstance in addition. The Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that evening a fact which was new to him—namely, that the Charity Commissioners had been offered and accepted the duties of this Endowed School Commission. That was a new matter, and he could not conceive in what way they were to come to a decision on the Motion of the hon. Member for Hackney without having all these matters cleared up. He should, therefore, support the Motion for the Adjournment of the Debate, more especially as he was aware that there was a great desire on the part of several hon. Members on his side of the House to take part in the debate.
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he must congratulate the Liberal party on their having at length found both a flag and a rallying cry. He (Mr. Forsyth) accused right hon. Members opposite and their followers with attempting to make political capital out of the Bill. He did not accuse the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) of joining in the attempt, because he was too independent to do so; but he did accuse him of having uttered a speech containing monstrous exaggerations, and of having on the very slightest foundation, built an enormous superstructure of misrepresentations. It had been stated over and over again—especially in that portion of the public Press which still followed the fallen and broken fortunes of the Liberal party—that the measure was one of retrogression; that it was a counter-revolution; that it was a step on the downward path; and that now, for the first time, the Government were attempting to reverse the policy of their predecessors. These were serious charges which ought to be met, and he intended to meet them boldly and fairly, and at the same time, seriously. If the charge against the Government—that they were adopting a policy of retrogression—were well-founded, it must be on one of three grounds—first, because an expiring Commission had not been renewed; secondly, because the powers of the expiring Commission were to be transferred to the Charity Commission; and, thirdly, because the clauses of the Bill respected the wishes of the founders of the endowments. In referring to the first ground, he had nothing to say against the Commissioners personally, but no one would deny that, whether they had acted lightly or wrongly, they had become most unpopular throughout the country; in fact, the hon. Member for Hackney had given five reasons why they had become unpopular, and that was a good reason why, for the purpose of carrying out such delicate functions as were involved in the Commission, the Government could not appoint Gentlemen who were in that position. And what had the Government done with regard to the second ground? By the Acts of 1869 and 1873, the Commission would expire in December next, and if the Government had wished to throw a
 356 cadit qucœstio "Any evidence admissible by law shall be receivable as evidence of the contents of the original instrument of foundation, and of statutes and regulations made by the founder or under his authority." 357
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he would admit that in a sense some were re-admitted, and also that some of the old rules might be incorporated in the new ones; but he
 348 tabula rasa doctrinaire 349 350
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that while expressing his regret that the measure should have been brought forward so late, he wished to point out that the last Government had asked the House to
 347
 MR. STACPOOLE  asked the Secretary of State for War, If his attention has been called to a statement published in the "Western Daily Mercury" of May 19th, alleging that a serious fraud on the public purse had taken place in a Cavalry Regiment; and, if so, will he state when the case was first brought to the notice of the authorities, and what steps have been or will be taken to investigate the matter?
 MR. A. H. BROWN  said, he concurred in the opinion that the Nonconformists had not had fair play, and he must certainly support the adjournment.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  thought the that right hon. Gentleman could hardly be aware that the Secretary for War had promised that a day would be given for the discussion.
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  said, a great portion of the revenue of the College was contributed voluntarily by the Irish Society of London, which was in favour of the Bill. He could not understand what objection could be urged against the proposed Governing Body.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, the speech which the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon) had delivered against the Bill ought to have been directed against the Bill of 1869, which was brought in by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford. It was a fact that King Edward VI.'s School at Birmingham produced most excellent scholars; the hon. Gentleman himself had given an illustration of that. The hon. Gentleman, however, had failed
 340 341 ex officio
 MR. SPEAKER : To quote extracts from newspapers referring to debates in this House is altogether out of Order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was out of Order in reading the Petition. If he wished it read, he should move that it be read by the Clerk at the Table.
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the House, that he had received from Mr. Justice Mellor, one of the Judges selected for the Trial of Election Petitions, pursuant to the Parliamentary Elections Act, 1868, a Certificate and Report relating to the Election for the Borough of Kidderminster. And the same were read, to the effect that Albert Grant was not duly elected and returned at the said Election, and that his Election and Return were and are wholly null and void; and that it was proved before the learned Judge that the said Albert Grant was guilty of a corrupt practice at the said Election within the true intent and meaning of the Corrupt Practices Prevention Act, 1854, in promising before and at the time of the said Election to certain voters for the said borough of Kidderminster, and other inhabitants thereof, that he the said Albert Grant would in the event of his being returned at the said Election, and after such return, give to such voters and other voters and inhabitants of Kidderminster, an entertainment consisting amongst other things of meat and drink, with the view and intent to induce such voters to vote for him the said Albert Grant; and that a number of voters had been induced to vote for the said Albert Grant by virtue of a promise made to them by persons canvassing them for their votes that their names should be put down upon a committee, and that it would be worth to them 10. each when all was over, and in other cases that they would be paid for their services when it could be done with safety. The learned Judge further reported that there was no reason to believe that "corrupt practices extensively prevailed at the said Election; "that there was evidence of a good deal of illegal treating during the Election, but it was not proved to his satisfaction to have been corrupt; and that it also appeared that several accounts relating to expenditure at the Election had not been returned by Mr. Grant's expense agent to the Returning Officer. And the said Certificate and Report were ordered to be entered in the Journals of this House.
 SIR JOHN KENNAWAY  asked the Under Sectary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether answers have been received from Her Majesty's Envoys in Foreign Countries as to the existence and operations of Laws there relating to Monastic and Conventual Institutions; and if he can state when that information will be laid before the House?
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he will state to the House what steps are being taken by Her Majesty's Government to secure the suppression of the traffic in slaves on the East Coast of Africa?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that considering the very great importance of the subject, and the manner in which the action of the Endowed School Commissioners touched every section of the community, it was not surprising that hon. Gentlemen who
 362 363 364 365 366 367 368 369
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there seemed to be a strong disposition to make mountains out of molehills. He begged to remind the House that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, on the second reading of the Bill, asked, whether the Charity Commissioners would be willing to undertake the duties, and that he (the Chancellor of the Exche-
 380
 SIR SYDNEY WATERLOW  said, that the object of the measure was to throw open what had hitherto been a Church College to members of all religious denominations by re-organizing it on a broad and liberal basis.
 VISCOUNT SANDON , in reply, said, that when the present Government came into office they found a large number of schemes which had been handsomely postponed by their Predecessors as soon as they felt that they were about to cease to be Members of the Government. They felt that it was right their Successors should have the responsibility of determining upon those schemes. The number of schemes approved of by the present Government was 42, three of which had been remitted to the Commissioners for alteration; 13 of those schemes were for grammar schools, and 25 for other educational charities. The number of schemes awaiting approval was 32. [Mr. W. E. FORSTER: How many have been disapproved of?] None had been disapproved of; but he hoped the House would recollect that 32 were awaiting approval, and that it was not improbable that some of these might be disapproved of He regretted that he could give no in-
 301
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, he was sure the House would agree with him that the hon. Member for Hackney was well entitled to claim their attention on the question of education. "What he said would always be listened to with attention on both sides, from the independence he had shown in regard to elementary education, especially in the debates on the famous 25th clause of the Elementary Education Act. He thought, however, that on the present occasion the hon. Gentleman in quoting what he had said ought to have been more careful to quote him correctly. His hon. Friend said he (Viscount Sandon) had threatened, speaking for the Government, to point their guns against the Nonconformists; but he said nothing of the kind. He said exactly the contrary—namely, that the political Nonconformists were pointing their guns upon the Church, and thereby grievously hindered the action of those who, like himself, were endeavouring to draw together the Nonconformist Churches and the
 318 319 320 321 322 323 324 325 326
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, from inquiries which I have made I have reason to believe that my hon. Friend is quite correct in the suggestion made by his Question as to the construction put by the Court of Probate upon the Statute 36 & 37  Vict
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, it was better to deal with this matter, not piecemeal but altogether; and that it was their intention to consider it fully during the Recess, with a view to legislation next year.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the words he used on the occasion in question were that the Government would take care that the House should have an opportunity of discussing the question before Parliament separated.
 MR. DISEAELI  moved: "That tomorrow, and on every succeeding Wednesday of the Session, Government Orders of the Day have precedence."
 LORD EDMOND FITZMAUEICE  said, the Bill might be considered first from an administrative, and secondly from an educational and a religious point of view. In his judgment, the administrative aspect of the question was most important, and he wished to offer some remarks upon it. According to the provisions of this Bill, the powers at present possessed by the Endowed Schools Commissioners were to be transferred to the Charity Commissioners. One of the first considerations which must suggest itself to the minds of many hon. Members was, if the powers of the Endowed Schools Commissioners were to be taken from them at all, why should they not be transferred to the Education Office? For his own part, he was in favour of the policy recently urged on the House by his right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh and St. Andrew's Universities (Mr. Lyon Playfair), when he advocated the appointment of a Minister of Education. But it should be remembered that the Lord President of the Council stated in "another place" that he was the Minister of Education, and his noble Friend the Vice President dwelt in his speech the other clay on the invaluable powers of revision now enjoyed by the Education Office with reference to schemes sent up to them by the Commissioners. It was true his noble Friend also said that if the whole business of the Endowed Schools Commissioners were entrusted to the Education Office, the Department would be
 399 arbitrio popularis auræ 400 401 "But nothing in this or in the principal Act contained shall require the Commissioners to provide that the governing body in any scheme (other than a scheme relating to a cathedral or a collegiate church school) shall he members of any particular church, sect, or denomination, and they may provide to the contrary unless there he in the original instrument of foundation any provision directing that the governing body, or any number of the members thereof, shall be members of a particular church, sect, or denomination." Expressio unius exclusio alterius 402 "Why should it he assumed that the man who before the Toleration Act made a foundation in favour of the Established Church, would, if he had lived 50 or 100 years later, have been a Dissenter? What was known was that he said he devoted his bounty to members of the Established Church, and it was embarking on a most dangerous field of speculation to assume that he would have done differently if he had known that in later days there would be Nonconformity and Nonconformists."—[3  Hansard 403 "The Puritan ministers, throughout the reign of Elizabeth, disclaimed the imputation of schism, and acknowledged the lawfulness of continuing in the Established Church, while they demanded a further reformation of her discipline. The Puritans did not object to the office of Bishop provided he was only the head of the Presbyters and acted in conjunction with them." cum avisamento episcopi 404 "Archbishop Bancroft deprived a considerable number of Puritan clergymen, while many more finding that the interference of the Commons in their behalf was not regarded, and that all schemes of evasion were come to an end were content to submit to the obnoxious discipline. But their affections being very little conciliated by this coercion there remained a large party within the bosom of the Established Church prone to watch for and magnify the errors of their spiritual rulers. They naturally fell in with the patriotic party in the House of Commons." "Episcopal ordination previous to the Act was never an indispensable qualification for Church preferment." 405 The Pilgrims Progress "narrow, indeed, in theory, and penuriously conceded a limited enfranchisement of mind as a privilege." "because it opened a career for religious freedom, it forms an era in the history of the liberty of England and of mankind." 406 407
 MR. HUBBARD  (London)  said, he had not been able by an examination of the present Bill—and of those to which it was a successor—to find anything in the measure which would justify the vehement indignation expressed by the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) in the speech with which he opened the present debate. He (Mr. Hubbard) asked the House to consider some points of general policy which ought to guide them in dealing with a question of this character, in order that they might mitigate that severity of criticism which one person was apt to pass upon the opinion of another who differed from
 414 415 416
 MR. SCORFIELD  said, he wished to confine himself to the administrative part of the Bill under discussion. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had read a letter to them from the Charity Commissioners as to the expediency of not having a divided administration in those matters; and, only yesterday, he had himself heard of a case in a town in the West of England where schools were not built merely because the Charity Commissioners and the Education Commissioners could not agree. That showed that one Commission would be better than two. Sometimes no Commission at all was better than even one, although perhaps hon. Gentlemen opposite believed, as Sydney Smith said, that the great secret of human happiness lay in handing over all sublunary affairs to the care of Commissions and Commissioners. Commissions might be valuable, but were they all to be abolished on Saturday night, the sun would rise as usual on Sunday morning.
 "Mira cano, sol occubuit, nox nulla secuta est." 438
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the noble Lord who has just sat down appears to me to have founded his defence of the measure before the House mainly upon these propositions—that the Endowed Schools Commission is about to expire; that the outgoing Commissioners have complained of the ambiguity of the 19th clause of the existing Act; that if this Bill be unacceptable to the Liberal party, so was that of 1873, as the noble Lord proved by reference to the Motion of the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn); and, finally, that this measure is not to be considered as a re-actionary measure, but rather as a measure of continuance, expansion, and modification of a process which was set in Motion by the last Parliament. As regards three of these allegations, they can be disposed of in fewer words than those in which they were made. If it be true that the Endowed Schools Commission is about to expire, it is about to expire in consequence of the enactment forced upon the acceptance of the majority of the late House of Commons by the friends of the noble Lord in another branch of the Legislature; and the noble Lord, in founding himself upon that state of the law as an apology for
 465 466 467 468 469
 MR. GLADSTONE : If that be so, then there is going to be a fundamental change; the most difficult, the most delicate of all the changes involved in this question, which concern the relations between the Church and the Nonconformists and the endowed schools—upon that question there is going to be a fundamental change of policy. Is that course likely to be satisfactory? Is it
 470 471 472 insula 473 474 475 Ministerial cheers 476
 LORD EDMOND FITZMAURICE  observed that he had not used the words in question. He had simply quoted what the hon. Member for Louth had said as to certain pre-Reformation Endowments, and pointed out what the effect of the Bill would be in respect of them.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had informed the House and the country that the existence of the Conservative Government was incompatible with the safety of the national Church. He thought that a startling statement, but the explanation was as follows:—that the Conservative Government was apt to identify itself with the interests of the national Church; whereas the Liberal Government took care to make it plain that it regarded the Church, not as the national Church, but as the Church of the nation. He hoped that distinction would be regarded as satisfactory by hon. Gentlemen, and that for the future among those leading questions which would be put to candidates on the hustings would be this one—"Are you in favour of the national Church or of the Church of the nation? "The right hon. Gentleman had made a very ingenious and luminous speech, in which he found fault with nearly everything his noble Friend (Viscount Sandon) had said in both the speeches he had delivered; he propounded a great number of questions better suited to the less heating atmosphere of Committee, and thought he had discovered what he called a "disingenuous argument," which founded itself upon the conduct and language of the right hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), when he was in office. Now, having listened to the greater part of this debate, he had heard no speech during the course of it which more fully vindicated that argument which the right hon. Gentleman had termed "disingenuous" than the frank and outspoken speech of the hon. and learned Member for the Denbigh Boroughs (Mr. Watkin Williams). Turning to the right hon. Member for Bradford, who sat below him, the hon. and learned Gentleman said frankly and openly that he was as much opposed to
 461 462 "He altogether objected to the exclusion, by the 6th clause, of some of the schools from the operation and, consequently, from the benefits, of the Act, and could not see on what principles such a provision had been adopted. The recommendations of the Select Committee did not at all justify such an alteration in the law, and, for his part, he would rather see, the Bill lost than that such a provision should be sanctioned by the House. It would upset a principle which they had fought hard to establish, and he could not be a party to any retrograde movement on the subject, and for that reason he felt bound to move the rejection of the Bill."—[3  Hansard 463 464
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  in reply, said, some alterations had been made in the Contract between Her Majesty's Government and the Peninsular and Oriental Company; but, so far as he knew, the statements which had appeared in the daily Press with regard to the nature of those alterations were altogether incorrect. The new contract, so far as the Government was concerned, was concluded, and had been laid on the Table of the House in the course of last week; and when it had been printed it would be submitted to the House in the usual manner by his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  mentioned that arrangements were made some time ago for an interview with representatives of Mr. Herring in regard to his invention, but that the meeting never occurred. As it had been determined by the Post Office Department not to adopt the invention in the Public Service, there was no occasion now for an interview.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, the whole question of telegraphic communication between England and Ireland would be brought under the consideration of the Government during the Recess, and the subject referred to by the hon. Baronet would not be lost sight of.
 MR. MUNDELLA  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, If he is prepared to give the House the names of the three gentlemen he proposes to add to the Charity Commission to carry out the Endowed Schools Acts Amendment Act, and to till up the vacancy in the Charity Commission?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am not at present prepared to furnish those names, as the matter is one of great importance, and requires the utmost consideration. They should be names which command the confidence of all parties in the House, and therefore I cannot say that I am prepared to give them. I shall be happy to receive any suggestions from the hon. Member or any other hon. Gentleman.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think it might be desirable to do so.
 MR. DISRAELI : Whatever may be the opinion of others as to the comparatively trifling importance of the question of the Fiji Islands, that is an opinion which I do not share. I think that the subject is one of great importance. With regard to the statement that there was a repudiation on my part of the policy of my noble Colleague in the other House, it has no foundation whatever. It so happened that, at a moment of some excitement the hon. Menber for Lambeth (Mr. W. M'Arthur), who had been absent, entered the House. The Question then before it was whether the hon. Gentleman should give up that opportunity which he had of bringing forward the question of Fiji; and he said that, in consequence of the satisfactory announcement of the Secretary of State for the Colonies that Her Majesty's Government had accepted the cession of the Fiji Islands, he was quite content not to press his Motion. That statement created some surprise on this bench, and I naturally rose, and, in order that there might be no misunderstanding, said that this was a policy which had not been communicated to me by my noble Colleague. An offer had been made to Her Majesty's Government to accept the cession of the Fiji Islands on certain conditions—numerous and considerable conditions. Her Majesty's Government had come to the conclusion that they could not even entertain the consideration of the proposition for the cession of these Islands unless these conditions were withdrawn. They would only consider the question of an unconditional cession, and therefore I was perfectly justified in repudiating the statement of the hon. Member for Lambeth. I now come to the point on which the hon. Baronet (Sir Charles W. Dilke) has moved the adjournment of the House. It is most desirable that such a question
 397
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker,—the right hon. Gentleman says that no suggestion was less founded on fact than mine—an insinuation that the debate which has now gone on for three days upon this Bill was promoted and supported by hon. Gentlemen opposite merely to gain time. My suggestion was one of those remarks which I think it sometimes salutary to make at a period of the Session when the House has suddenly become unexpectedly excited by a measure which has prolonged its debates, and when it has no clear comprehension of the position which the legislation in question really occupies. I have listened to these debates with as much attention as any one; and, having been generally present in the course of them, I am still of opinion, notwithstanding the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, that after the first night of the discussion on the second reading of this Bill nothing that has been urged on either side of the House has afforded matter other than that which was legitimate material for Committee. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen) in speaking this evening, challenged the position which has been laid down on this side of the House that the principle of the legislation on this subject has been the same on both sides of the House. The right hon. Gentleman told us that this was a complete error. He admitted that in the Act of 1869 the claims of the founders of the endowments had been recognized, but he said that they were recognized only to a limited degree, and on a principle which probably included less than 100 schools. The right hon. Gentleman then said "that was the exception to our principle, and you have adopted that as your principle." But the right hon. Gentleman was not ingenuous enough to remind the
 477 478 479 A laugh 480 481 482 "The Charity Commissioners have already acquired so much experience in dealing with schools, and by the general assurance of the evidence we have received have used that experience so well, that in all probability they would avoid many mistakes that would he inevitable in the operations of a new Commission." 483
 MR. DISRAELI : I have no objection to Progress being reported. I would fix the Committee for to-morrow.
 MR. CAWLEY  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Her Majesty's Government are prepared to carry out such of the recommendations of the Committee on the Patent Laws contained in their Report of 1872, as can be adopted without further legislative powers; and, whether he will introduce in the next Session of Parliament a Bill for further amending the Patent Laws in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee?
 MR. NEVILL  said, as one who had voted against the second reading of the Bill, he desired to say a few words in explanation; not only because of that vote, but because he felt bound, though reluctantly and unwillingly, to vote in favour of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett). It appeared to him that the Bill was one of re-actionary policy. The policy of the last Government he understood to have been the extension of the benefits of endowments and foundations for the education of the middle-classes to the great body of the Nonconformists of this country. He approved of that policy, and he thought it desirable that the endowments and foundations which they wished to preserve for educational purposes should be shared in by all the inhabitants of the country. He had hoped on the previous night that the Amendment promised by the noble Lord (Viscount Sandon) would enable him to vote for the Bill, instead of following the hon. Member for Hackney into the Lobby; but he did not think the words proposed to be added to the 4th clause were sufficient to take away from it the objection which appeared on the face of it, and therefore he felt bound most re-
 426
 MR. D. JENKINS  asked the Postmaster General, Whether the statement in the daily press is correct as to a proposed alteration of the Contract now existing between Her Majesty's Government and the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company, for the conveyance of the East Indian mails; and, if so, when the conditions of such alterations will be laid upon the Table of the House?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that, at the time, he thought the Prime Minister's answer was not satisfactory, and he subsequently asked the Secretary of State for War whether a day for the discussion of the question could not be given, and he was bound to say that he received a good-humoured answer—not given in a churlish tone, and referring him to some stage of the Appropriation Bill, but expressing the right hon. Gentleman's belief that a day for the discussion would be given. Before the Parliament met again the Government would have to adopt some decisive policy in the matter,
 396
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he did not know whether the loud cheers which greeted the close of the speech of the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council on introducing the Bill were due to the fact that the measure was merely meant to substitute one set of Commissioners for another, as the hon. and gallant Member who had just spoken said it was. If so, he was surprised that a change of that description should have called forth so much enthusiasm. When the hon. Member for North Devon (Sir Thomas Acland) sat down he expected that some Member of the Government would rise to explain the position in which the House stood. The Government had certainly not assisted the House very much in the progress of the Bill. They had had two speeches from the noble Lord, one from the Secretary of State for War, one from the Home Secretary, and one from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But as one portion of each of those speeches was devoted to answering the other portion, much light had not been thrown by them on the subject under discussion. The noble Lord's second speech had explained away his first; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer, having only spoken once, had not had an opportunity of answering himself the right hon. Gentleman had, however, done away with much of the effect which might have been produced by the speech of the Secretary of State for War. He said that the reason why the Commissioners were removed was that there was to be a reversal of policy. A reversal of what policy; and, a substitution of what policy for it? These Commissioners were to be dismissed, not because they had done wrong, but because of the reversal of policy which was going to take place; but at the very moment when the House was asked to assent to the dismissal of these Commissioners and to transfer their duties to another body it did not know what was the policy which was going to be reversed—it did not know whether or not Dissenters were to be eligible as
 455 456 457 458 Ministerial cheers 459 460
 MR. FAWCETT  moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. FAWCETT  moved that the Chairman do report Progress.
 MR. RICHARD : Sir, the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hubbard), who has just spoken, cannot expect me to accept his very singular definition of un-sectarian religious education as consisting of education according to the principles and doctrines of the Church of England. Many of us inside of this House, and many more outside, would, on the contrary, regard that as being as intensely sectarian an education as could well be conceived. The hon. Baronet the Member for East Devon (Sir John Kennaway), has repudiated for himself, and for the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council, any intention by this Bill to attach a stigma to the great body of Nonconformists. I will say nothing about intention, because it is not for me to attempt to fathom men's motives; but whatever may have been the intention, such is unquestionably the effect, and the Nonconformists throughout the the whole country do look upon it as a stigma and an insult. I should have been content to have left the case against this Bill where it has been placed by the powerful speeches delivered on this and the former night's debate, especially those of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone), and my hon. Friend the Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett.) But I am anxious to make a few remarks, because I happen to belong not
 418 419 ex officio 420 421 422 423 "When you come to deal with the clauses there are some few points which I think require attention, but generally and in substance I heartily approve this measure."—[3  Hansard "He must express his gratification at the manner in which the measure had been conducted through the House of Commons. He believed the Government had shown in the progress of the Bill through that House that they were actuated solely by a desire to promote a great national object, irrespectively of all party or sectarian feeling. He was happy to be able to add that Parliament and the country might, in his opinion, place the strongest reliance in the ability and character of the Commissioners to whom the supervision of the new system was to be intrusted."—[ Ibid 424 Voila le diable qui preche la morale 425
 MR. STEVENSON  said, he thought that, in spite of the attempts of hon. Gentlemen opposite to treat as slight the changes proposed by that Bill, it was very evident, on the face of the whole subject, that those changes were, after all, very serious. The liberalizing effect of the Act of 1869 was about to be greatly narrowed, and its restrictive parts very widely extended. The schools to which the change would apply were to be numbered by hundreds. But what was even more important was the altered spirit which was to govern that legislation, as evidenced especially by the sweeping change about to be made in the  personnel 439
 MR. DODSON  said, he did not charge the hon. Gentleman or the Government with any intention; he simply stated the fact that such was the view taken by the Dissenting Body. The hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House spoke of the unnecessary delay in going into Committee on this Bill; but if any justification were required for those who last night urged the adjournment of the debate, it would be found in the terms of the Amendment of the noble Lord, which they saw to-day for the first time. The real fact was that the regulations of the Acts as regarded endowed schools were so very technical as not to be readily understood by those who had not had very considerable experience in the study of them. These regulations were further complicated by additional exceptions introduced by this Bill; and, he ventured to add, the complications were infinitely complicated by the terms of the noble Lord's Amendment. If anyone not very well versed in the regulations respecting endowed schools attempted to make out what would be the combined effect of the two Acts and of the Bill with the Amendment of the noble Lord, he would find it an extremely difficult puzzle. The Acts prescribed that the Commissioners should provide
 410 411 412 cy prés 413
 MR. DODSON  said, he had listened with great satisfaction to the conciliatory speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, who had expressed himself anxious to go forward, and who had by anticipation discussed the clauses
 409
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, If a Memorial from the outdoor officers of Customs at Dublin, forwarded by them on the 8th May, has been received by the Lords of the Treasury: and, if their Lordships have taken into consideration the prayer of the memorialists?
 MR. DILLWYN  asked the Vice-President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether he has intimated his willingness to introduce a Clause into the Endowed Schools Acts Amendment Bill which will exempt the Manchester Grammar School from the operation of those Clauses of the Bill which affect its character and manage-
 392
 MR. DILLWYN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. WARD  said, that on the question as to the wills of Roman Catholic founders, very little was to be expected from either side of the House. It had been asked—What would a Roman Catholic founder, if he could now be questioned, say to the proposal of the Government?
 417
 MR. WARD  said, his memory differed from that of the noble Lord. He accepted his explanation, but had no hesitation in saying that, to his mind, the words were used by him.
 MR. WARD  said, he felt it imperative on him to state the reasons which would guide him in giving his vote on this Bill. The real issue to be decided was not the mere transfer of certain powers from one set of Commissioners to another. The true issue lay between two great schools or classes—those who represented Denominationalism and those who represented Sectarianism. A side issue had been raised—and very properly raised—by the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Sullivan), who asked Her Majesty's Government whether it was intended that the principle of the Bill should be so extended as that the wills of Roman Catholic founders would be respected. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, however, evaded the point of the question with a dexterity for which he was not unknown. On the subject of the wills of Roman Catholic founders he regretted to have heard the expressions which fell from the noble Lord the Member for Calne on the subject of the Roman Catholic Church teaching the worship of the Virgin and the Saints. The noble Lord should have paused, before he threw that insult in the face of the Catholics of Ireland.
 MR. SAMPSON LLOYD  said, he did not yield to his hon. Friend who had just spoken in the desire to approach this subject in an unsectarian spirit, but he had been unable to come to the same conclusion. For his own part, he could not conceive what foundation there could be for the excessive warmth of feeling manifested by hon. Gentlemen opposite against this Bill; because Section 19 of the Act of 1869, and one or two sections in the Act of 1873 went quite as far, and even farther, than this Bill. The hon. Member (Mr. Richard) had talked of the national Church and the national beverage. He was not ashamed of either; and as to the national beverage, it was quite as good as the gall and verjuice which the hon. Member sometimes infused into their discussions. He was surprised to hear his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Dixon) deny that the present Birmingham School Board had not permitted religious instruction in their schools. When they came into office the board, by a majority of one, abolished the former system of Scriptural instruction, and forbade religious instruction to be given by the masters. It was true, that the board let the schools at a rental to the Nonconformists, who taught on two days in the week their own religious views, for which the board was not responsible. That was not, however, teaching religion in the schools on the part of the school board. It was true, that the Governors of King Edward's School, Birmingham, had been for many years self-elected, and that the master of the school had been in Holy Orders. It should, however, be remembered that the provision for self-election had come down from ancient times, and had been the rule in many of our foundations. It was, probably, the only way in which the succession of duly qualified Governors could be kept up, and the school was not to blame for having continued the system of self-election. He believed that the present Governors were anxious to change the present system, and he would certainly never stand up to defend it. Several members of the Liberal party, long before there was any agitation on the subject, were elected upon the
 427 ex officio 428
 MR. BRISTOWE  said, that the Opposition had been taunted with making this a party question; but if ever there was an occasion when it was fair and legitimate to do so it was when a Bill of this character had been introduced and carried forward in that spirit by the Government. If ever this Bill became law it would be essentially a party and re-actionary measure, and thus far the Opposition was bound to do all it could to prevent its becoming the law of the land. The Bill was introduced in a spirit of a somewhat party character. It had been
 436 437 "Nothing in this or in the principal Act contained shall require the Commissioners to provide that the governing body in any scheme (other than a scheme relating to a Cathedral or a Collegiate Church school) shall he members of any particular Church, sect, or denomination, and they may provide to the contrary unless there be in the original instrument of foundation any provision directing that the governing body, or any number of the members thereof, shall be members of a particular Church, sect, or denomination."
 MR. WADDY : Mr. Speaker—It has been frequently remarked in the course of this debate that it would be well for some of those who represent Nonconformist opinion in this House to state authoritatively what attitude the different religious Bodies in the country will probably assume on this question. Sir, I belong to one of the largest and most energetic of those Bodies, but I do not think it is either my right or my duty to represent its opinions here in an authoritative way. There is a definite and recognized mode in which the decisions of the Wesleyan Body are made public, through its President, its Conference, and its Committees, and neither I nor anybody else in the House of Commons, at any school board, or anywhere else, has a particle of official or responsible right to speak in its name and on its behalf. I think it is inconvenient, though it has latterly become more usual than formerly, for hon. Members to assume representative rights which do not constitutionally belong to them. I claim to speak on behalf of the constituency who conferred upon me the honour of a seat in this House, and on behalf of nobody else. Still, as it has been my privilege during the whole of my life to be connected with the Wesleyan Methodist Society, I think I am able to judge what may be the effect of this Bill on our interests; what may be the feelings produced amongst us; and how, so far as I can see, it will probably influence our political action in the future. It is chiefly from this point of view that I propose to consider the question. Let me, however, say that I agree with that which was stated so
 429 430 431 432 433 434 435
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  could not but feel that a challenge—an offensive challenge—had been given to Nonconformists, and also that the Endowed Schools Commissioners had been exposed to undue treatment. The noble Lord (Viscount Sandon) had an here-
 448 449 450 451 452
 MR. EARP  asked Mr. Attorney General, Whether he is aware of the construction which Probate Court officials have put upon the Act of 36 and 37 Victoria, chapter 52, entitled "An Act for the Belief of Widows and Children of Intestates, where the Personal Estate is of small value," by which construction the widow and children only of an intestate, as literally expressed in the Act, are benefited thereby, and the children of a poor widow excluded from its operation, notwithstanding that section 4 of the 13 and 14 Victoria, chapter 21, entitled "An Act for shortening the language used in Acts of Parliament, "enacts that in all Acts words importing the masculine gender shall be taken to include females; and, whether he is prepared to take such steps as will cause the Act first above referred to, to be made applicable to the estates of poor intestates of the female sex?
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that a Memorial had been received at the Treasury, and that no final decision had yet been come to in regard to it.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  said, that, having listened attentively to the lengthened debate upon the Motion before the House, and to the conflicting, and, at the same time, confident opinions which had been expressed by hon. Members as to the scope and object of the Bill, he had put the question fairly to himself—What was really the true meaning of the Bill? Was it the retrograde and re-actionary measure it had been described, reversing the received and settled policy of the past, or was such a description of it unfair and exaggerated? To listen to the speeches of some hon. Members opposite, particularly the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for East Devon (Sir John Kennaway), anyone would suppose that this was an innocent and harmless measure for merely improving and amending "The Endowed Schools Act, 1869," and giving a more complete and extended operation to the real principle of that Act. He disclaimed the charges that had been thrown out by hon. Members opposite, that there was an attempt on that side of the House to make political capital out of the Bill. Such attempts he condemned not only as wrong and unworthy of a great party, but as most unwise, and as certain to recoil upon the heads of those who made them. The country at large was sure to judge for itself, and form its own conclusion whether the charge was a just one, or whether the Bill was properly denounced as a retrograde measure, reversing great and settled principles of past legislation, or an amending and improving Bill intended to carry out and develop those principles. He wished to impress upon the House that it was by no means a simple matter to determine what the real meaning and effect of the Bill was. The question turned mainly upon the
 440 441 442 "In this Act and the Endowed Schools Acts the expression 'express terms of the original instrument of foundation,' shall be held to include any provision in the original instrument of foundation which enjoins the attendance of the scholars at the religious worship of any particular church, sect, or denomination, or that they should be members of a particular church, sect, or denomination, or directs that the masters or principal master of a school are to he persons or a person belonging to any particular church, sect, or denomination, or requires or subjects the regulations of a school to be made or approved by any person or authority holding office in any church, sect, or denomination, or directs the governing body of a school, or the majority of such body, or the electors of the governing body, or a majority of such electors, to be members of a particular church, sect, or denomination." "Section 17.—In every scheme (except as in hereinafter-mentioned) relating to any educational endowment, the Commissioners shall provide that the religious opinions of any person, or his attendance or non-attendance at any particular form of religious worship, shall not in any way affect his qualification for being one of the governing body of such endowment. "Section 18.—In every scheme (except as in hereinafter mentioned) relating to an endowed school, the Commissioners shall provide that a person shall not be disqualified for being a master in such school by reason only of his not being or not intending to be in holy orders. 443 "Section 19.—A scheme relating to.… (2.) any educational endowment the scholars educated by which are, in the opinion of the Commissioners … required by the express terms of the original instrument of foundation … to learn or to be instructed according to the doctrines or formularies of any particular church, sect, or denomination, is excepted from the foregoing provisions respecting religious instruction, and attendance at religious worship … and respecting the qualification of the governing body and masters." 444 445 446 447
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  asked the Vice President of the Council, Whether he can inform the House if the Government have any arrangement in progress which will enable Germany to be excepted from the list of scheduled countries for the import of cattle; and, whether there is any objection to the immediate admission of cattle from the Duchy of Oldenburg on the same conditions as cattle are now imported from Schleswig Holstein?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that when the original Act of 1869 was passed the names of the Commissioners were asked for on that side of the House, and they were immediately given by the Government, and before the Bill left that House. Would the
 394
 SIR ARTHUR GUINNESS  asked the Postmaster General, Whether he will take measures to provide for the members of the Stock Exchange at Dublin, facilities for direct telegraphic communication similar to those now enjoyed by the members of the Stock Exchanges of Edinburgh, Liverpool, Manchester, and Glasgow.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  said, he wished to put a Question to the Government with reference to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. M'Arthur), on the subject of the Fiji Islands, and as what he had to say might lead to some discussion, he would put himself in Order by moving the adjournment of the House. A few days ago the House was occupied at a morning sitting with the Public Worship Regulation Bill, and when that sitting closed a considerable desire was shown by the House to proceed further with the Bill in the evening. On the House resuming, his hon. Friend was asked not to proceed with the Notice which stood first on the Paper in his name that evening, on the ground that a statement had been made in "another place" as to the intentions of the Government with regard to the Fiji Islands. The hon. Member for Lambeth gave a view of the statement of the Secretary for the Colonies, which was immediately repudiated by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. Several other hon. Members had come down to ask the Government whether some opportunity would be given during the Session for considering the statement made in "another place," and which, he believed, it was the intention of the Government, but for the Public Worship Bill, to have made in both Houses. Several hon. Members had privately asked the same question of the Secretary of State for War, who used some such phrase as that an opportunity would be given; and the hon. Member for Lambeth, on putting the
 395
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  said, that the hon. Member for Lambeth was so well satisfied with the explanatory statement of the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary that he had placed a Motion on the Paper expressing his approval. After the statement of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government as to the absolute necessity of having the question discussed before Parliament was prorogued, he would not further press the matter with regard to a particular day being fixed for the discussion, but would ask permission to withdraw his Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Gentleman that he had accepted the noble Lord's explanation, and could not, therefore, repeat the assertion.
 SIR JOHN KENNAWAY  denied in the most emphatic manner that the Bill had been introduced as a taunt to the Nonconformists, or with any desire to deprive them of their legitimate influence. There was an attempt to treat this Bill as re-actionary, and to prevent it getting into Committee. That, he thought, was a mistake. The Bill was not re-actionary, and if there were things in it which did not please the Opposition, they might easily be remedied in Committee. Speaking generally, the Bill was a very simple one. It was merely intended to put a better definition upon the terms of the 19th clause of the Endowed Schools Act of 1869. Two Members of the Select Committee of last year had stated that the construction put upon that clause was an unnatural one; that it did not carry out the legitimate intentions of the founders; and that therefore it was not one that should be perpetuated by the Endowed Schools Act. Now, that was precisely what was to be done by this Bill, and very little more. The hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) had maintained that the Bill would have the effect of excluding the children of Nonconformists from the benefit of the scholarships connected with many of the endowed schools. How could it be
 408
 SIR JOHN KENNAWAY  said, those who supported the Bill were charged with the intention—and he repudiated the intention—to give offence.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I did not say that they were to be conducted in opposition to the conduct of the Commissioners generally, but on certain points, in particular Church Schools; and with reference to lines, I was speaking of the general reform of the endowed schools of the country.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he was not one of those who were particularly in love with this Bill; but if there was one thing in the world that would pass the Bill, it was the speeches they had heard in opposition to it from hon. Gentlemen opposite. His hon. Friend who had just sat clown always imported more party spirit into his speeches than almost any other man he knew. He began by attacking one of the former Commissioners who was now in India, and praising another who might be sitting under the Gallery. It was a most improper thing to praise a man who was present, and to blame most severely a man who was absent. ["Oh, oh!"] The hon. Member said Mr. Hobhouse was not a fit man to be on the Commission. ["Oh."] [Sir THOMAS ACLAND: I did not say so.] That, at all events, was the inference to be drawn from the hon. Baronet's words. Then, he said that the noble Duke the President of the Council had given no notice to the Commissioners why he was going to dismiss them; but if it had been a matter affecting pleuro-pneumonia, the relations of landlord and tenant, or game—[Sir THOMAS ACLAND: I never said a word about game.] Well, South Downs; game and South Downs were not far apart; whoever bred the one well would be able to breed the other well also. But his hon. Friend had said that no reason for the dismissal of the Commissioners had been given. Perhaps it might have been well if some reason had been given; and he was surprised that the noble Lord should have said that these men acted to the best of their
 453 454
 VISCOUNT SANDON : Sir, negotiations have been carried on since the Vienna Conference in 1872 between those European Governments who sent representatives to that Conference, with a view to relieve generally the restrictions upon the transit of cattle. Pending the result of these negotiations the Privy Council do not think it advisable further to relax the restrictions which obtain in this country in regard to the transit of foreign cattle in favour of any particular Country or State. The Government is not, therefore, at present prepared to except Germany from the list of scheduled countries, or to allow cattle brought during this summer from the Duchy of Oldenburg to be imported on the same terms as cattle from Schleswig Holstein.
 VISCOUNT SANDON , in reply, said, he had given no intimation whatever upon the subject, and he was astonished to read in the organs of the Press some extraordinary statements that had been made as to his conduct in this matter at a meeting of Nonconformists. All that had passed was that an hon. Gentleman behind him asked him yesterday whether he would receive a deputation from the Trustees of the Manchester Grammar School in the afternoon. He was not, however, able to receive the deputation, being overwhelmed with work at this period of the Session; and he begged his hon. Friend to listen to what he had to say in the evening, which he thought would remove some of the objections which influenced the Trustees of the Manchester Grammar School. That was all he said; and if not so, he should be happy to consider the matter at some future time.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that his attention had been called to the explosion referred to, and that the Inspector of the district had, as usual, immediately made a Report to him, in which he stated that, owing to the shortness of the time which had elapsed since it had occurred, he was unable thoroughly to examine the mine, because the remnants of the accident had not been cleared away. He was afraid the deaths caused by it amounted to nearly 15, and as soon as the mine was in a fit condition to admit of further inquiry, the Inspector would proceed with his examination and would send in a fuller Report. As soon as that Report was received it would be for the Government to consider whether any special action should be taken upon it. In any case the matter would not be lost sight of.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, there was no doubt such a difference of pay as that referred to in the Question, although the figures mentioned by the hon. Gentleman did not exactly represent the state of the ease, as there was no reference to lodging money and other allowances. The whole
 489
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, that odd as it might appear after the speech to which they had just listened, he should confine himself to the question before the House. Personally he would rather trust the execution of the provisions of the Bill to the old Commissioners, if they had been continued, than to the new; but at the same time, he must express his opinion that even if the Commissioners had been free from blame with regard to the administration of these trusts, the Government would have been blamed if they had proposed that they should continue to carry on the work of Commissioners of Endowed Schools. His reason for thinking so was, that Nonconformist Members on the Opposition benches would have found fault with the manner in which they dealt with the schools, and even with the religious opinions of the Commissioners themselves. There were in England 146 denominations, and it was found that the
 503
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  said, it seemed that the clause was to be supported by the Government, because of the alleged unpopularity of the Commissioners, but he thought that had been disposed of by the hon. and learned Member for the City of Oxford. It was considered that the trustees were generally people who were very anxious to promote education; and that it was very desirable the Commissioners entrusted with the execution of these reforms
 505 506
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  desired to explain. He had risen not to delay the Bill, but to suggest its withdrawal to the Government; and in his reference to the delay that might otherwise ensue, he had indicated no intention of his own, but had referred to the course which might possibly be taken by other hon. Members.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  rose to Order, and asked whether the remarks of the hon. Member were relevant to the question before the Committee.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he failed to see any connection between the subject upon which the hon. Member for Peterborough was entering and the question before the House, which was as to the advisability of transferring the powers
 508
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, the Amendment now before the Committee, in reality, raised the whole question. He deemed it right to say so much at the outset, to anticipate the possibility of misapprehension as to some of the observations he meant to make. They were called upon in the clause before the Chair to sweep away the existing Endowed Schools Commission, and in the Amendment, they were called upon to extend their period of office for five years. In order to judge between these two proposals, it would be quite necessary to review the whole system which hinged upon each alternative. Some few hon. Members of the House amongst whom he sat seemed to think that was a question of the denominational system and the secular system of education. Certainly, if it were so, he (Mr. Sullivan) and the large number of Irish Members who voted last night would at all hazards vote for the Bill. He and they were advocates of the denominational system in education. In the application of public funds for education, they contended that each denomination should share the State aid, and on the same principle, they contended that in the education of youth, religion should not be excluded; but he found no such issue raised in that conflict. It was not a struggle between a denominational system proposed in the Bill against a secular system now in force. If it were, he repeated, his vote would be given against the old and in favour of the new scheme. But the authors of the new propositions themselves had again and again declared that it did not assert any such new principle, or propose any change in the system of education from the existing
 513 514
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he understood the hon. Member, in his remarks, merely to refer to those clauses, in illustration of his argument.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he was most ready to bow to any decision of the Chairman; but he would emphatically assert that he was entitled, in discussing a clause which proposed to abolish the existing Board and set up another, to review the propositions made as to the powers the new Board should exercise. It was not his desire or purpose to anticipate the discussion which must arise on Clauses 4 and 5, especially as affected Catholics, but this much was fairly necessary to his argument. It was to carry out Clauses 4 and 5 the old Board was to be abolished, and why? Because the framers of the Bill wanted men whom they could thoroughly trust, to work out their own exclusive ends in exercising their option in respect to these clauses. The whole motive power and force of the change was attributed to "complete and scrupulous respect for the will of the founder." If that was not genuine, away went the whole foundation from the Bill. Was it genuine? Why, the Prime Minister himself had to admit that it was not, and that the language of the Bill was utterly delusive towards Catholics. It was to be respect for the will of the founder as long as such a plea availed to exclude Nonconformist Protestants—it was to be disregard of, defiance of, outrage of, the will of the founder whenever the founder was a Catholic. The Catholic was to be plundered and the Nonconformist thrust out; but the doctrine of "continuity," they were told, was to justify this—the continuity of the Established Church.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, as he understood the hon. Gentleman he was referring
 515
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he would resume his seat, if he was to be interrupted or fettered in so palpably necessary a portion of his argument. He was demonstrating by reference to those clauses why Clause I should be amended as proposed. The disregard of the will of the founder, where he happened to be Catholic, was excused by the plea of continuity, of pro-Reformation, and ante-Reformation. "What kind of continuity—was it legal or doctrinal? The plea was that the Established Protestant Church was a continuance of, was the heir-at-law of, the Catholic Church, and was thus entitled to all educational endowments originally given for Catholic schools; that the two Churches were to be regarded as one and the same. The family likeness certainly was not strong; but surely the kinship between the Catholic Church before the Reformation and the Establishment of to-day was not half so strong as that between the latter Church and those other sub-divisions of the Protestant Body, whose claims, as co-heirs, were now utterly denied. The continuity and identity plea surely could not avail as between those, and, consequently, that attempt in the same Act to despoil the Catholics and defraud the Dissenters was a glaring inconsistency, to say the least. Now, here exactly was the pith of the whole case—here exactly arose the consideration which had led the authors of the Bill to propose to abolish the existing administrative body or tribunal, and set up a new one. The present tribunal might, according to the option given it, administer endowments for Protestant education in a way to give all the subdivisions a share, according to the equities of each case and all the surrounding circumstances—nay, they might extend like justice, in part, at all events, to the Catholics. So they were to be swept away, and a new tribunal set up, who would construe everything into the lap of the Establishment. What was bequeathed to the Establishment expressly was to be all theirs. What was bequeathed for Protestantism generally was to be all theirs. What was bequeathed for Roman Catholics expressly was to be theirs. In fact, everything
 516
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was sorry that the course of the debate should be interrupted, and more sorry still for the cause. The Government had entirely declined to discuss the merits or the conduct of the Commission, and after the statements which had been made that day by hon. Members, and especially by his right hon. Friend the Member for Bradford, he should certainly support the Motion for reporting Progress.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that however reprehensible might be the practice to which the hon. Gentleman referred, the language in which the hon. Gentleman described it was equally to be condemned.
 MR. MACDONALD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been called to another explosion that took place on the 18th in a mine near Wigan; and, whether it is the intention of the Government to order that a full inquiry be made to ascertain the real cause of that explosion?
 MR. MUNDELLA  moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, he rose to a point of Order. He wished to ask, whether any hon. Member connected with the Ministry was warranted in skulking behind the Chair, and there lending his voice and aid to the noise and confusion which prevailed. The hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Board of Trade (Mr. Cavendish Bentinck) had been doing that for some time past.
 MR. RITCHIE  said, there could be no doubt that a feeling existed in the country that the Endowed Schools Commissioners had not been acting in accordance with the spirit of the Act of Parliament, and that in consequence they had come very much into collision with the trustees, and so caused the schools to be less efficient than they otherwise would be. In taking as their principle the carrying out the wishes of the pious founders, the Government were only doing that which they were bound to do. He thought the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the City of Oxford was totally inappropriate to the clause under consideration, relating, as it did, to the appointment of Commissioners. It was necessary either that the old ones should be continued or new ones appointed, and the question was, whether the old Commissioners had given such satisfaction as would justify the Government in continuing them in their present position. He approved of the course proposed of appointing a Commission already existing,
 504
 MR. GREENE  said, that he himself had in times past joined in factious opposition; but he had never known the front Opposition bench to take part in such a proceeding before. They had had three nights' discussion upon the question that had occupied the whole of the day, and it was rather too much to say now that the Government declined to join in the criticism that had been passed upon the Commissioners' conduct. Hon. Gentlemen opposite might
 537
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he would not have interposed in the discussion were it not that he was one of the trustees of a school for which a scheme had been prepared or rather suggested by the Commissioners. Those gentlemen proposed to make some alteration, such as that which had been alluded to by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down—an alteration which he believed to be wholly unnecessary, and injurious to the trust, by infusing what they called "new blood" into the existing body of trustees. This school—the Manchester Grammar School—had attained a remarkable degree of importance from the fact that the right hon. Member for Greenwich devoted nearly half his speech last night to it. Evidently there had been some little anxiety on the part of the Nonconformist trustees as to the effect of the Bill upon them; but that anxiety appeared to have been suggested rather by political interests than by denominational alarm. In proof of that, he might mention that one of those gentlemen was stated to have said at a public meeting at the Westminster Palace Hotel, that he hoped this Bill might pass in its most objectionable form. The right hon. Member for Greenwich roused himself to the highest pitch of eloquence in describing the trustees of the Manchester Grammar School, one half of them Nonconformists and the other half Churchmen, to whose liberality the school was so much indebted. But in one respect the right hon. Gentleman was incorrect. The right hon. Gentleman stated, towards the end of his speech, that a largo amount of money recently subscribed, mainly by the board of trustees themselves, was subscribed under the protection of the Act of 1869. These were
 511 "Upon the faith of the legislation of 1869 these £50,000 were subscribed, partly by Churchmen, but yet more by Nonconformists.… I want to know how it is reconcilable with good faith, that we should pass an Act in 1869 which went forth like sunshine over the City of Manchester, and induced the people of that City to bring forth from their own treasures those large sums of money … and then to interfere by means of a Bill which would destroy the legislative sanction under which these funds were given." "Langworthy's and the trustees' subscriptions announced April 8, 1868. Public appeal made April, 1869. Contract signed July following. Act nothing to do with raising the money for building." ex officio
 MR. FRANCIS MONCKTON  asked the Secretary of State for War, If it is the case that Adjutants of Yeomanry, who act as Quartermasters in addition to their other duties, receive only 10 s s d
 MR. DIXON : It is my intention, Sir, to confine myself strictly to the Amendment before the Committee, with one exception, and that is, in order that I may correct an error which has been made by an hon. Gentleman opposite. He informed the House—and the statement
 517 ex officio "We cannot interfere in a matter of this kind, except with the consent of all parties. You must obtain the consent of the trustees before you can move in this matter." 518
 MR. DIXON : We know that he has spoken on every occasion on behalf of these Bodies. He has spoken on behalf of the Corporation of the City of London, and particularly in the case of the Emanuel Hospital, which was a matter brought forward, as was generally understood at the time—to a great extent, at least—at the instigation of the Corporation of London.
 MR. DIXON : It was said at the time that the Corporation of London and other City corporations had an enormous power in this House. What I wish to say is, that I desire to place upon record that there are people who do not share that feeling of antagonism to the Commissioners which has been alleged so frequently in this House. It is not the case of the town that I represent, which contains between 350,000 and 400,000 inhabitants. The pith of the whole discussion turns on the question, whether the Commissioners are or are not entitled to the confidence of the country; and whether it is true or not that they are so unpopular as the other side have been constantly telling us. I can speak in behalf of Birmingham for this reason—that I have for many years past taken a very great interest in endowed schools. We have in Birmingham one of the largest of these endowed schools, and it is an institution of the greatest possible value to Birmingham. We have had an association for the reform of the Grammar School, and I am the Chairman of that association, and therefore know the feeling of Birmingham in this matter. That association is by no means composed of extreme men. My predecessor in office as Chairman of that Body was a gentleman who was opposed to me on every point in reference to elementary education;
 519 520 521
 MR. GREGORY  rose to Order, and said the clause they were on referred to a proposed power to transfer the authority to deal with the endowments from the present Commissioners to another tribunal.
 MR. MELLY , as a Nonconformist, said, Dissenters had found fault with the existing Commissioners because they believed them to be too partial to the Church of England. How much more would they object to the new men who were to be less impartial and more in favour of the Church than the former? He believed the reason why it was proposed to dismiss the existing Commissioners was that they could not be trusted to job sufficiently for the Church party. They were to be dismissed because they had shown by their decisions in questions connected with the administration of these schools that they would admit Nonconformists as well as members of the Church of England to enjoy the benefits which the founders of these institutions had conferred upon the nation. The Act of 1869 was also to be altered because, unjust, unfair, and exclusive as it already appeared to the Nonconformists, it was not sufficiently so to please the Church party.
 MR. MELLY  continued the argument. resumed To-morrow
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he could not support the Amendment, because he felt convinced that it was in the interest of the public service that these duties should be transferred to the Charity Commissioners. Having been a Charity Commissioner himself, he could confirm the statements in the letter of Sir John Hill, which he thought was conclusive on the point. As a Churchman desirous of maintaining the Established Church, however, he earnestly appealed to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government to remove from Churchmen the disgrace of attempting to carry their doctrines into the schoolroom, whilst they had their pulpits for such purposes. The reason he did so was, that it was clear to all who chose to look, that some of the clergy of the Church of England had followed the example of their great prototype at Rome, by seizing upon educational endowments for the purpose of impressing upon the young their creed and dogmas.
 MR. WHALLEY  declared that Churchmen were ashamed of their Church because of these squabbles about education.
 MR. FAWCETT , in moving that the Chairman report Progress, said, he had not ever given a factious opposition to the Bill, nor did he mean to do so then; but he was certain, after attentively listening to the last two debates, and the debates of last week, that it was absolutely impossible for the House to proceed with the Bill. What he contended was, that the objects of the Bill, as stated on its introduction by the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council, were entirely different from the objects as stated on the previous evening by the Prime Minister. He would refer first of all to the speech of the Vice President, who was responsible for the Bill, and who should have told the House distinctly what he intended. The first statement of principle by the Vice President was in moving the second reading—and no one who knew the noble Lord would imagine for a moment that he would resort to anything like subterfuge, there was not a more candid or straightforward man in the House—on that occasion the noble Lord said that no responsible Minister would pretend to assert that the endowed schools were national schools, belonging to the nation and not to the Church. It was therefore evidently the noble Lord's intention that they should be given to the Church, and taken away from the nation. Again, he distinctly stated that he wished by the Bill to reverse the policy of the previous Acts; but the Prime Minister told the House the night before, that the Bill was not
 491 492 493 494
 SIR HENRY JAMES : The hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds has accused those who sit on this front bench with having, for the first time, set an example of factious opposition. Why, Sir, we have only to go back to 1871 for such an example, and displayed, too, by those who sit on the side of the hon. Member for Bury. The Ballot Bill question had been for years before the country. Perhaps the Leaders of the front bench did not make themselves personally conspicuous in this conduct; but they had hon. Gentlemen acting for them below the gangway, and everything was done to delay that Bill, so that it could not be sent up to the other House in time to be passed. We, on this side, are simply asking for discussion upon the conduct of the Commissioners who are to be dismissed. The Government have not the courtesy to grant us that discussion, and for that reason it appears to me that we are perfectly justified in taking the course which we are doing.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the proposal of the Bill was, that those Endowed Schools Commissioners should be put an end to. He thought they should have been put an end to last year. He considered that they ought not to have laid clown one inflexible rule, when a new scheme for a school was settled, that all the existing Governing Body of the school should be put on one side. For instance, supposing a Governing Body
 509 510
 MR. LOCKE : I had nothing to do with it.
 MR. LOCKE : I do not hold any such position as has been attributed to me by the hon. Member.
 MR. WHITWELL , who rose amid loud cries of "Divide," said, that if hon. Members below the gangway insisted upon a division before the question had been fully discussed, the only course open for him to take would be to move to report Progress. With regard to the Endowed Schools Commissioners, he held that that Body showed that they still possessed great vitality. It was, therefore, undesirable to appoint other Commissioners in the place of those who were now discharging the duties of the Endowed Schools Commission, thereby condemning their past conduct. They had hitherto acted in harmony with the Educational Department of the Government; and it was an unfortunate thing that they were about to be superseded on a point that affected the interests and feelings of the people on a most vital question. He trusted that the noble Lord opposite would feel that common justice was due to the gentlemen who composed the Commission, and the country would certainly demand a greater cause of accusation against them than had been alleged. It was not a matter of endowment, but of education, and he deprecated the introduction of religious prejudice into it. It was a matter of which a Minister of Education should have the control, and he hoped that for another year, at least, the present Commission would be continued. He suggested that if a change was made, it should be one which would place the Commissioners more immediately under the control of the Education Department, which was directly represented in that House, and not transfer their powers to the Charity Commissioners.
 MR. DILLWYN : Sir, we are perfectly justified in the course we are pursuing. Government are taking a step which I never saw taken in this House before. They are endeavouring, during the very last days of the Session, to foist through the House—I repeat, to foist through the House, by means of a tyrannical majority, a Bill which is to have the most disastrous consequences. I say, Sir, that such a course of conduct is a gross outrage of the exercise of Parliamentary power. ["Oh, oh!"] It is, I say, a gross exercise of such power to attempt to pass a Bill which I cannot characterize otherwise than as re-actionary, and even revolutionary. It is a righteous exercise of power on our part to try and defeat such a Bill, even though we should sit here till October.
 MR. MORGAN LLOYD  said, that it would be a very easy matter for the Government to pass the Regulation of Worship Bill provided it dropped the present Bill.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that if the Dulwich College scheme were before the House, it would be his duty to state the other side of the case. There were two town parishes which were to receive £2,000 per annum and £50,000 capital, and with regard to the Governing Body of Dulwich College he knew that they were favourable to the continuance of the Commissioners. He repeated as positively as possible that the late Government were not responsible for the powers of the Commissioners expiring this year. His hon. Friend (Mr. W. M. Torrens) said that, of the 41 majority in favour of the Government last year, 27 had lost their seats. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Knatchbull - Hugessen), however, informed him that about the same proportion of the minority of 88 had also lost their seats. His hon. Friend said he might have brought the House of Lords to terms; but the Government were obliged to choose between having no Bill at all, and allowing the Amendment of the other House to remain. It was also said that the Bill might have been put into the Expiring Laws Continuance Act, but it was no breach of confidence to say that the Marquess of Salisbury who took great interest in the subject, told the Marquess of Ripon that he would not assent to that course, and he was perfectly able to keep his word. Passing, however, from that, he would come to the question before the Committee. Looking at the subject matter of the clause from an educational point of view, it would be impossible to over-rate the importance
 532 533 534 ex officio 535 536
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he felt bound to retort upon the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Sir William Harcourt) the charge of introducing sectarian bitterness and rancour into the debate; and in support of the charges made against the Endowed Schools Commissioners he would refer to a speech made last year in that House, founded upon the evidence taken by its Select Committee, which evidence, it was said, would convince any one that the Commissioners had been guilty of great indiscretion. That speech was made by a Member of the present Opposition, and if it gave a correct description of the work of the Commissioners, was not the Government justified in seeking to supersede them by others against whom no such charges could be brought? The name at the commencement of the speech he had referred to was that of Mr. W. M. Torrens.
 MR. TORRENS  said: Sir—I am sure my hon. Friend who has just sat down, believes sincerely that on educational matters England is a mere curtilage of Birmingham. [Mr. DIXON: I did not say so.] My hon. Friend did not think it necessary to say so; but all his arguments, and those of the school he so fitly represents in this House, imply the strange delusion that what suits the humour of his constituency, may be, and ought to be, imposed as a rule on the rest of the nation. I shall not be tempted to try a wager of wealth, wisdom, or worth, with my hon. Friend; though I might, were it needful, cap voters with him, and show that in the more numerous, opulent, and cultivated community with the care of whose interests I am charged, convictions the most opposite prevail to those which he tells us predominate in Birmingham. In 10 years' experience, I do not remember any theme of discussion on which there has been so near an approach to unanimity among all classes and creeds in Finsbury, as the local appropriation of school estates which we claim as our own. From public bodies and from public meetings I have presented numerous Petitions praying the House to frustrate, by its interposition, the confiscating designs of the Endowed Schools Commissioners. Men who agree in little else—clergymen and dissenting ministers, employers and employed, Liberals and Conservatives—concur in a feeling of detestation of the policy of the Commission, and resentment at the manner in which their expostulations have been disregarded. I am happy to say that with us religious jealousy has in no wise discoloured the truth in controversy; and I cannot refrain from expressing my regret that it should have so deeply tinged the matter of this debate. For my part, I never hear the substitution of sectarian for social, and polemical for political considerations in our disputes, without that sense of sorrow and disgust which filled the mind of Robert Hall, and to which he has given such eloquent utterance. I do not gather, indeed, from the last speaker that all the good people of Birmingham are content with the way in which their old foundations have been treated by the Commissioners; and even if they were so, their satisfaction can only be set off against the dissatisfaction of Southwark,
 523 524 nemine contradicente 525 526 527 528 quantum valeat 529 530 doctrinaire in articulo mortis 531
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he thought it curious that they should have been advised that the proper place to discuss this Bill was in Committee, and that they should then hear, directly on getting into Committee, a statement from the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council, that he would not intrude upon the time of the House by discussing the Bill. During the three nights' debate which had taken place upon the question, and which had been principally occupied by the explanations of hon. Members opposite, he had endeavoured, as quietly and silently as he could, to discover the reason why the Endowed Schools Commission was to be abolished. He was about to say that the Government had given no reasons. It would, however, be more true to state that it had given a great number of reasons, each of which, so flatly contradicted the other, that before the Bill passed into law, he believed the Government would have to give some much plainer and more satisfactory reason than had yet been advanced. The proposed change of  personnel 498 499 500 501 in terrorem 502
 MR. A. H. BROWN , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 1, line 25, to leave out from "passing of this Act," to end of clause, and insert "continue in force for a period of five years from the date of passing of the Act," said, the object of the Amendment was to continue the present Commissioners in office for that period, as they had done their work well, and each year they had published a larger number of schemes. They were appointed in 1869, and in 1870 they published 28 schemes; in 1871, 91 schemes; in 1872, 138; and in 1873,122. They had thus had great experience in the work, and if their services were retained would probably be able to do more in the future than they had done in the past. Moreover, there were many schemes at present in process of formation, which would probably fall to the ground if the change proposed by the Bill was carried out. So far as the amount of work done by the Commissioners was concerned, there seemed no ground for bringing any charge against them, and the opposition which their proceedings had aroused was entirely due to the novelty of the principles which it had been their duty to apply, which principles were embodied in the Report of the Schools Inquiry Commission. But he ventured to say that as the country had gained more experience in the matter, the dread of the schemes of the Commissioners had greatly subsided, and generally speaking, the whole of the schools which had been touched by the Commissioners had been greatly improved. It should be remembered that the Commissioners had not only had a great deal of work to do,
 495 496
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that the last sentence of the speech of the hon. Member showed that his object was simply to delay the passing of the Bill.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that as he had understood, the hon. Gentleman had intimated that unless the Bill were withdrawn the House might continue sitting until the 12th of August. The tendency of the hon. Gentleman's remarks was to disparage the Charity Commissioners and to laud the Endowed School Commissioners, who had rendered themselves unpopular throughout the country, and had caused alarm to trustees in every direction by declaring their inability to understand Clauses 19 and 24 of the Act of 1869. The Bill was introduced in a conciliatory spirit, and in accordance with the general views and principles of the Government, and for the purpose laid down in a former Session by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford, for that right hon. Gentleman did not, when he legislated upon this question, in any way disparage the Charity Commissioners; it was to them he looked for the ultimate working of the scheme. The Bill of 1869 was brought in as a temporary measure; and, in the interval, it was expected that by the adoption of a system of elementary education for the country, there would be more means of considering whether it would be necessary at the expiration of three or four years to make any change in the Endowed Schools Commission. The Commissioners commenced their work in a spirit of hostility very different from what was expected, and it was admitted in the Committee that the Commissioners had taken a different view of the Act and their duties than the House of Commons had expressed in words. If it were true that the Endowment Commissioners had given universal satisfaction, how was it
 507
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON  rose to Order, and intimated that the hon. Member was discussing matters which were not now before the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE JENKINSON : I beg to warn the Opposition that if they persist
 538
 SIR HARCOURT JOHNSTONE  said, he wished to say a few words in vindication of Canon Robinson. He had had an opportunity in many ways of witnessing the manner in which Canon Robinson had conducted very difficult functions, and he could say that as a clergyman of the Church of England and a schoolmaster, that gentleman was specially fitted for the work of the Endowed Schools Commission. While a Committee,
 512
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving that the Order for going into Committee on the Bill be discharged, said, that the measure had been re-cast, in accordance with the views of the House, was now being printed, would shortly be circulated, and would, he hoped, be re-introduced next Session. He wished to add a few words by way of redeeming a promise which he had made to the Prudential Assurance Company. The Report of the Royal Commission contained certain remarks on the practice of that company, of issuing policies which were worthless for want of insurable interest. The Directors having had their attention called to the statement, applied to the Government, and stated their belief that there really were insurable interests in those cases to the extent of the funeral money, which was the limit of the insurance. They further expressed their wish to be allowed to bring in a Bill to make the law clear on the point and to legalize their proceedings. He thereupon informed them that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a measure on the general subject of friendly societies, and that it would contain a clause dealing with the point in question. Satisfied with that answer, the Directors did not proceed with a Bill of their own, and he had introduced a clause into the Bill of the Government to meet the case; but, of course, that clause fell through with the measure itself. That being so, the company again applied to the Government to assist in carrying a Bill of their own; but he had informed them that there was no necessity for proceeding in the matter this Session. He had reason, he might add, to believe that the directors had acted entirely in good faith, and that there were arguments to be adduced in support of the view which they took on the subject, although he himself was of opinion that they were wrong. The right hon.
 490
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, he did not at all complain of the hon. Member for Wenlock (Mr. Brown) wishing to test the feeling of the House with regard to this change. At the same time, considering the matter had been discussed for three nights, he felt that he would not be justified in dwelling at length upon it. He would only quote some figures, by way of correcting those of the hon. Member, with regard to the schemes of the Endowed Schools Commissioners. There had been 800 grammar schools in the country to be dealt with, and in regard to 74 of them schemes had been passed, while as to 66 others there were schemes now in the Education Department or published, but still open to objection. That left 660 actually undealt with. There were 90 schemes at present in course of preparation, and deducting these also, the number of schools which remained untouched was 570. With regard to other endowed schools, the total number was 370; 89 schemes had been passed; 42 were in the Education Department, or published, but still liable to change; and 239 of the schools, therefore, were still undealt with. The number
 497
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that no pledge had been given by the War Department that 40 cadets would be admitted in each term; nor had they said anything to lead to that expectation. At present, there was no probability of there being so many vacancies in the Engineers or Artillery, and therefore it was very undesirable that cadets who had qualified should have to wait so long for their commissions as they would have if the limit of age were extended. It was not the intention of the Government therefore to extend the present maximum of age beyond 18 years.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the Question was one which it would be impossible to answer within the limits of a reply to an interrogatory, even if he were prepared to state the course which he intended to pursue. The Report of the Commission was a very complicated and difficult one, and embraced considerations far beyond the question of compensation—for instance, the question of promotion in the Army. He could only say that he was sensible of the very great difficulty of the subject and its great importance, and he was giving it his utmost attention, with the view of bringing it to a satisfactory conclusion.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I have heard, Sir, to-day from the Chief Constable at Hanley, and he assures me that the whole of the Hanley force and the local county force have been busily engaged in investigating the truth of the story in question, and that up to the present time, they have been unable to find any corroboration of the story which appeared in the papers.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : When the story first appeared, I entered into communication with the Editor of the newspaper, and he certainly satisfied me that there were good grounds for believing
 555
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said the hon. Baronet, by applying to the office of the European Society Arbitration, could obtain information as to the number and dates of sittings which had been held under the Arbitration, and he did not think it would be proper to encourage the expense of the printing of the House by furnishing Returns of them.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the answer which I am about to make to the Question of my hon. Friend opposite will in substance answer the Question standing in the name of the hon. and learned Member for Newark. It is to this effect. Arrangements have been agreed upon by the Judges for the alteration of the circuits, and it is proposed to carry out those alterations by Orders in Council, which will be made at the same time as the Judicature Rules are made, and will be made public and come into operation at the same time with them. When these Rules and Alterations are made public, my hon. Friend will obtain the information which he seeks; but I do not think that it would be consistent with my duty to state their purport or effect before the Orders in Council have been made.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Mr. Raikes, I have very sincere satisfaction in rising to second the reasonable proposal which has been made by the right hon. Gentleman, and I believe the right hon. Gentleman has not gone beyond the truth in the picture he has drawn of the high intelligence, the cultivated mind, and the refined pursuits of this Prince, and of his capacity to tread—in these most important respects—in the steps of his illustrious father. Sir, I hope that the House, in receiving this proposal, will never cease to bear in mind how eminently agreeable the manner and the matter of it are to the spirit of our institutions. As regards the matter of it, the proposal is one which is within those limits of moderation which have marked all the requests addressed on the part of Her Majesty to Her faithful Commons; and, as regards the manner of it, we cannot fail to recollect that this mode of coming from time to time to state—as the Princes and Princesses have attained successively to certain periods of life, the need which has appeared to arise on their behalf, is the manner which is most agreeable to the spirit of our institutions—most calculated to maintain the authority of the Sovereign over the junior members of the Royal Family, and most calculated also to maintain the constitutional control of this House in any and in every question connected with the disposal of the public funds. I would only venture on one slight suggestion more, and it is this—Upon every occasion the disposition of the House has been manifested in regard to these proposals in a way the most unequivocal. As the mode adopted by the Sovereign is the one most deferential to the powers and privileges of Parliament, so I venture to hope that on this occasion the method pursued by us will be the one most consistent with those feelings of loyalty and attachment which we all entertain towards the Throne. That reasonable and moderate offering which we are asked to make in the name of the nation will be most gracefully made—and will possess a double value if it be made—unanimously. As the method of approaching us is the method which we all feel to be the most considerate, so I trust the method of our reply will be that which we all know must enhance the value of the offering we make by the gracefulness, the readiness,
 559
 MR. GLADSTONE  said: Mr. Raikes—The first duty that I have to perform is one not essentially relevant to the discussion—the immediate subject of discussion—before the Committee, perhaps; but it is one which, I am sure, the Committee will feel it is incumbent on me to discharge, inasmuch as it has reference to a statement made with perfect propriety in the early part of the debate by the hon. Member for South-east Lancashire (Mr. Hardcastle). That hon. Gentleman endeavoured by means of the telegraph to test the accuracy of a statement I had made on a former evening. I wish now to state to the Committee the exact condition of the facts in regard to that statement. I had said that in the ease of Manchester a sum of £50,000 had been contributed from voluntary sources within the last five years, and I had founded on that statement various arguments to which I need not now refer. But the hon. Member for South-east Lancashire made a statement yesterday which was received with considerable emotion of a favourable kind on his own side of the House, and which I understood to be to the following effect:—He said that I was mistaken in stating that £50,000 had been
 561 562 gravamen 563 locale 564 modus vivendi 565 566 567 568
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I hope that nothing which I may say will give cause for any of that excitement which was yesterday so prevalent. When the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone) referred to me as being prepared to reply to the speech of the right hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) he spoke quite correctly. I did intend to reply to the speech, until I perceived what an extraordinary course he was taking. The right hon. Gentleman after going into the subject at great length addressed to the Government a series of interrogations of a most minute character, not only with respect to the question before us, but with regard to our conduct generally in reference to this Bill. He accompanied these interrogations with those looks at the clock which are not unfrequent as the hour of 6 is approaching on Wednesdays. It was then left to me to reply at a moment when I might be the means of talking out the Bill when we wished for a Division, and I was determined not to fall into the snare. It was not, therefore, from any disrespect to the right hon. Gentleman nor because I shrank from the responsibility of the view we take with respect to the Endowed Schools Commission that I declined to prolong the discussion. As to myself, I think as was shown by the hon. Member for Fins-bury (Mr. W. M. Torrens) yesterday, I have been entirely consistent in my opposition to the Commission. It is said that the Government have been wanting in courtesy to the members of it—a remark which is, of course, meant for the Department with which they are brought into contact. I am not aware, however, that the Commissioners have sought any conferences with that Department. I believe that although on many occasions the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford said he had conferences with them, that, as a general rule, their schemes were prepared in their own office. [Mr. W. E. FORSTER: I was in constant communication with them.] I am not aware, so far as my noble Friend near me can inform me, that on any occasion any personal conference on any one of the schemes of the Commissioners has been demanded. I would further remind the House that this Commission is not a permanent body. It was appointed only for a limited time, and the late Government last year evidently felt
 570 "The published opinions of some of the Commissioners on the subject of endowment have caused alarm, and have in some cases seriously impeded the harmonious action which might otherwise have been secured between them and the Governing Bodies of the charities with which they have had to deal." 571 "Their own experience, as they state, in attempting to work the Act has convinced them that the country was hardly prepared for its reception, and it is to he regretted that some of the changes proposed by them, especially in the cases of certain good schools, should have been such as to hinder the hearty co-operation of those who had heretofore worked to render them efficient." 572
 MR. GOLDSMID  declared that, opposed as he was to some of the subsequent provisions of the Bill, he, for one, would vote for that clause, as it would be voting for the disestablishment and disendowment of the present Commission. He had no personal motive in doing so, for he was not acquainted with either of the three Commissioners. Whether the Commission had acted  fortiter in re 574 suaviter in modo; suaviter in modo inter alia 575 suaviter in modo
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Pardon me—I never said anything of the kind.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : What I did say was—Are we to suppose that the Endowed Schools Commission would wish to force themselves on a reluctant Government?
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  admitted that the Endowed Schools Commissioners had, in some cases, acted with a high hand, and in a sledge-hammer manner; looking upon themselves, to use a vulgar phrase, as "cocks of the walk." In a certain sense they were unpopular; but then it should be borne in mind that the work they had to do—namely, the correction of abuses—was unpopular work. The question was this—could the Government put their finger upon a single case in which the Commissioners had acted  ultra vires
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  moved, in page 2, line 25, after "such," to insert "number of."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  agreed with his noble Friend that nothing could be better evidence of the intention of the founder with regard to the application of the foundation, than the direction in the will that the children should attend a particular church. The Government had been taunted during these debates with refusing to allow any Dissenters to be on the Governing Body. He thought that rather a hard charge; but as there had been much heat throughout these discussions, and though there was much misrepresentation, he had remained silent. But now that the Government had shown that they were willing to throw open one-third of the Governing Body to Dissenters, it was rather hard that they should be charged with wishing to exclude them. The right hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) thought this was going but a little way. But the Amendment of his noble Friend went the whole way, because it enabled the Commissioners to throw the whole open if they thought fit. It would enable them, in short, to adapt their rules to the circumstances of the different localities. The Amendment would show more conclusively than anything else what was in the minds of the founders, and it would settle the matter of religious teaching, which was better than leaving it open to be scrambled for by the different parties.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  regretted very much that the Government—seeing the very strong feeling which existed in the House on this question—had not made a larger concession. The feeling of a large minority, if not a majority, of the House was that it would be wiser to entrust the Charity Commissioners with the administration of the Acts of 1869 and 1873 unaltered than to pass a new Act, making, as the right
 593
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  was inclined to think that the power reserved to existing Governing Bodies under the Act of 1869, as modified by the Act of 1873, would not be interfered with by the present Bill; but if, on maturer consideration, he found it was otherwise, he should be prepared to secure that power by the insertion of some such words as these—"Without prejudice, nevertheless, to the exercise of any power which the Commissioners may be otherwise authorized to exercise with the assent of the Governing Body."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the earlier part of the clause was really an interpretation of the meaning to be given to the words, "express terms of the original instrument of foundation." It was intended that Clause 19 of the Act of 1869, which referred to any educational endowment which required the scholars to be instructed in any particular formularies, should have a larger interpretation than had been given to it by the Endowed Schools Commissioners. In 1873 a step was made in that direction, and now the question was, whether the interpretation sought to be given by Clause 4 was such as the Committee could accept. If it were found that by the original deed of foundation the children were required to attend church, and that since that time they had done so and been instructed in Church principles, could it be said that the words of the proposed clause gave a more extended interpretation than was contemplated by the Act of 1869? When it was found that there had been a uniform observance of the original foundation it was not asking too much that the interpretation adopted should be that given by the present Bill.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVLLLE  remarked that similar squabbles took place 30 years ago amongst Dissenting-Bodies as to what were the desires of their founders. From those squabbles, opening many most vexatious law suits, the Tory Lord Chancellor of the day brought in the Dissenters' Charities Act, which allowed continuity to religious congregations, and which provided that congregations which had worshipped for 25 years in the same chapel, should enjoy the rights and privileges of those chapels. Could not a similar principle be adopted now? It would save a great many speeches and heart-burnings if that common-sense view of the matter were taken.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed, that the words referred to had been introduced into the clause "out of abundant caution." The Commissioners, if directed to observe the will of the founder, might have been in some difficulty if the deed of foundation were not forthcoming; and it was to meet this difficulty that the words had been introduced, that they might proceed according to the ordinary law of evidence to receive proof of the contents of that document.
 MR. SCLATEE-BOOTH  opposed the Motion.
 MR. SCLATEE-BOOTH  regarded the clause as a very valuable one in the interests of the public at large, and promised that if it injuriously affected the remuneration of the Registrars he would consider how it could be remedied.
 MR. KINNAIRD  was delighted to hear the speech of the hon. Gentleman
 607
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : No question of principle in connection with ecclesiastical appointments in India has been raised. The Government of India had under consideration the principle which in future should regulate the expenditure incurred on behalf of ecclesiastical establishments in India, and they directed certain inquiries to be made in order to obtain additional information upon this point. In the last Despatch we received last year we were informed that the inquiry was still incomplete.
 LORD RANDOLPH CHURCHILL  expressed a hope that the Government
 603
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  trusted the noble Lord who had charge of the Bill would not listen to the appeal that had just been made to him. The clause on which the Committee was now engaged was the substance of this Bill. He admitted that the wording of the clause might be improved; but he contended for a clear recognition of the express intention of the founder in substitution for the entangling technicalities of the existing Acts. The Members of the Select Committee of 1869 were surprised at the narrow and technical interpretation given to the words which they had agreed to, because they thought that these sufficiently defined the founders' intentions. Since then a thick haze seemed to have gathered round the matter. The question as to the intention of the founder was a question of right and of law, and which had to be ascertained by history and evidence. The object of the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) seemed to be to apply funds which had been bequeathed for the purpose of promoting religion and education to simply secular objects. Hon. Members on the other side of the House had argued as if there was no such thing as a Conscience Clause, and as if the provisions of this Bill would drive Nonconformists to schools whore a kind of religious education might be given that was repulsive to their convictions. So long as there was a Conscience Clause he did not think that any injustice would be done to any child, whatever his religion might be, by adhering to the religious formularies, whether of the Church or
 599
 MR. ALFRED MARTEN  said, the clause did no more than give a definite meaning to the words "express terms" in their relation to the original instrument of foundation. The proposed interpretation proceeded on a principle which had already been recognized by the Court of Chancery and the Legislature. In his opinion the Committee might therefore fairly adopt the words.
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, his sole object in rising was to make a personal explanation. Yesterday, in the heat and confusion of the last few minutes of the debate, he had used an observation with regard to an hon. Member which, upon reflection, he regretted having uttered. He thought it his duty spontaneously to withdraw that observation; because he should indeed be sorry if the debates of that House were not conducted with dignity and good-humour. He trusted, therefore, that, even if they should have to sit in that House until October, the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Greene) would find some turnips for his recreation and for the sake of his health. As the Prime Minister had referred to him in the course of the debate, he begged to suggest, as a means of putting an end to the battle on this subject, that, if the right hon. Gentleman had not sufficient confidence in the present Commission, the Endowed Schools Commission and the Charity Commission should be amalgamated. If the right hon. Gentleman would assent to that proposition, as he might with a good grace, the educational interests of the community would not suffer, as they undoubtedly would if this clause were passed.
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Mr. Raikes, it seems to me that the hon. Member for Hackney rather misconceives the genius of Parliamentary debate. Our habit is to have discussion, ample and even adjourned discussion; and during those discussions we avail ourselves of every opportunity to elicit and obtain the opinions of our opponents on either side of the House. But it has not yet been a feature in Parliamentary debate that, when the discussion has closed and the division is about to be taken, either the Government or the Opposition should be catechised. Such a practice would rather remind us of that inconvenient rubric which has been referred to recently in our debates, in which the Catechism is insisted upon after the Second Lesson. I trust that neither side of the House will sanction the introduction of such a Parliamentary rubric; therefore I hope that we shall at once proceed to the division which has been called for.
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Raikes, in pursuance of the Notice which I gave on Monday, and of the Orders of the House, I now proceed to make a Motion
 557 "That the annual sum of £15,000 be granted to Her Majesty out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain and Ireland, the said Annuity to be settled on His Royal Highness Prince Leopold George Duncan Albert, for his life, in such manner as Her Majesty shall think proper, and to commence from the date of the coming of age of His Royal Highness."
 MR. DISRAELI  said: I think that at this time of the night, and under all the circumstances of the case, the Motion is not an unreasonable one.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY , in moving that the Order for the re-committal of the Bill be read and discharged, said, the Bill had not only received very full discussion and evidence in the Select Committee, but also had incurred alterations incapable of re-arrangement at that late period of the Session, and such as if left untouched would make the Bill cease to answer either its home or international purpose. Besides that, the Report of the Royal Commission on Unseaworthy Ships, just out, suggested further legislation on the subject, especially on the treatment of cargoes on deck. It would be most undesirable to add two Acts to the existing number on Merchant Shipping, when one might more perfectly deal with the subject, and he proposed to introduce one with this view next Session. The time of the Select Committee had not been wasted, but most usefully employed in elucidating the requisite legislation, and in illustrating the difficulties of making any system of deductions from gross tonnage permanently or generally equitable or satisfactory; and the international interests involved would be benefited by the interval given for more completely maturing a commercial system which might, and probably would, be adopted by all maritime nations.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  looked upon the clause as a perfectly reasonable one. Undoubtedly the intention of these founders when they directed the children to go to church was that they should be educated in the religion of the Church of England. The real value of this clause was, that it would enable the Commissioners to interpret the meaning of the founders with regard to religion. If hon. Gentlemen who were Nonconformists could only agree among themselves as to the definition of the term religion the difficulty in their case might be met; but as that agreement did not exist, he thought at least the majority of Nonconformists might be induced to accept the religion of the Church of England, properly understood, as a basis, since the Church of England was the Church of the majority of the nation. There should be established the principle of a Conscience Clause in such a sense that it would be impossible for any violence to be done to parental rights.
 MR. RITCHIE  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, If the Lords of the Treasury have taken into their consideration the Memorial of the Out-door Officers (Customs) of the Port of London; and when their decision is likely to be made known?
 MR. GREENE  wished to say a few words in explanation, after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. "When he yesterday stated that hon. Members on the front benches opposite had joined in a factious opposition to the Bill, he stated what he believed to be perfectly true. He did not complain of the opposition of the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett)—it was nothing more than was to be expected from the views he was known to hold; but when the right hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) repeated over and over again arguments they had all heard, they had a right to believe his intention was to delay the Bill. As to his statement that right hon. Gentlemen on the front bench on that side did not join some of them when they were actuated by a deep interest in the welfare of the country, he well recollected one particular occasion, when they protested against the Ballot being introduced into the Education Act, and his friends on the front bench, as soon as they saw the opposition was becoming warm, left the House. The right hon. Gentleman had on that occasion called him to task for continuing his opposition after his Leaders had left the House, but as an independent Member, he thought he was justified in pursuing the course which he then took. After that the right hon. Gentleman made a conciliatory speech, and matters ended very pleasantly. As to what he had said before, he would merely observe that he felt it to be true, and he was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman's denial. It would be difficult for him and those who supported him on the other side to say anything more on the subject; but whether it was or not, he could tell them that he and those with whom he acted were nothing willing that Parliament should be prorogued before passing a measure which they entirely approved. He did hope that the Bill might now be allowed to proceed.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, the question between the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich and himself was this—that he (Mr. Gladstone) argued that the list of subscriptions for the rebuilding of the Manchester Grammar School was the result of the legislation of 1869, whereas he (Mr. Hardcastle)
 576 577
 MR. HERMON  said, he could have wished that the clauses had not been inserted in the Bill, and should be glad if the Government could come to the conclusion to withdraw them. Their passing would give to the Church of England something which she was not entitled to claim, and might be the means of her losing something which she was fairly justified in possessing. The Government, with a large majority at its back, could afford to be generous; and therefore he hoped they would give up those clauses, and so enable the House to proceed with really important business.
 MR. EDWARD STANHOPE  said, though the precise wording of the clause might be somewhat obscure, there was really no difficulty in arriving at the intention of the Government in regard to this clause. Its object was to introduce a more precise definition of the express terms of the original instrument. He was quite ready to admit that in a certain number of schools, with regard to which there was at present considerable doubt, the religious teaching would in future be according to the principles of the Church of England. He did not see in what way that would injure Dissenters. They were going to put Nonconformists upon the management of a vast number of these schools, and the Boards of Management would very often be turned into battle fields of religious sects, and, perhaps, no religious education at all would be given. Their object was that there should be a religious education, and seeing that the children of Nonconformists would be admitted to all the benefits of these endowments, and protected by a liberal Conscience Clause, he hoped they would accept the compromise now offered by the Government.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he had some doubts whether the clause under consideration was an improvement upon the provision contained in the Act of 1869, which protected all institutions under the statutes of which the scholars were to be instructed in accordance with the principles of any particular denomination. He would suggest that in view of the Amendments of which the Government
 595
 MR. GREGORY  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he is aware that the promotion of the Clerks in the Chancery Office of the Paymaster General has not been carried out in accordance with the twenty third section of the Court of Chancery Funds Act, and why there has been a suspension of such promotion in the regular course?
 MR. HUNT , in reply, said, it was true that one of the ships sent out for the purpose mentioned had broken down—namely, the  Encounter Volage 554
 MR. MELLY : In reference to the answer just given by the Home Secretary, I wish to ask him what the "reliable information" was which caused him to inform the House on a previous occasion that he had reason to believe the horrible fight had really taken place—a statement which, being made on the authority of the right hon. Gentleman, and casting a great stigma on the local police and municipal authorities, gave more offence in the neighbourhood than anything which appeared in the papers.
 MR. MELLY  remarked that what they objected to was, that a number of those schools should be put in a position in which no change could be made unless the existing Governing Bodies assented to it.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said: So long ago as the year 1856 a Circular was issued to Boards of Guardians to the effect that the Poor Law Board could not assent to the admission of workhouse officers' children to reside in the workhouse, and pointing out that good order and discipline must be interfered with if such a practice were to prevail. In accordance with that Circular and with the habitual practice of the Department, a communication was made declining to accede to a recent application of the Dewsbury Guardians that the schoolmaster and mistress should be permitted to board their child or children in the workhouse. No answer has been received from the Guardians, nor have any special circumstances been stated which would justify a departure from the general rule, in the propriety of which the House will doubtless concur.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Since I had the honour of receiving a deputation introduced by my hon. Friend, and by the hon. Member for the City of
 551
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  objected to the Amendment.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought a compulsory registration in the case of death unnecessary, as it was substantially so at present.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  pointed out that the Schools Inquiry Commission recommended that the policy now before the House should not be adopted. It was clearly intended by this Bill that a number of schools should be treated as Church schools which were not to be so regarded by the Act of 1869. Many of these, too, were pre-Reformation foundations. Now, he begged hon. Gentlemen to observe that formerly it was the law of the land that all children should be compelled to go to church, and it was not necessary for a founder to insert a clause in his will enjoining children to attend church in order to make it a Church school. All that founders really did was, not to declare that the children should attend church, but that they should attend church in a particular way, such as altogether, or upon particular days, such as saints' days. If the clause as it stood passed into law, the effect would be to convert many schools into purely Church schools, which would otherwise have been denominational schools.
 MR. WHALLEY  supported the Amendment, so as to guard against the surreptitious burial of those living in convents and monasteries.
 MR. WHALLEY , in moving for Re-turns of which he had given Notice, said, the Secretary of the Treasury had already stated that the expenses of the prosecution amounted to £50,000; but the Return was entirely fictitious—[" Oh, oh!"]
 611
 MR. FAWCETT  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War was mistaken in supposing him to have said that the Committee appointed on the subject had acted dishonourably. He would not presume to speak so disrespectfully of a Committee of that House. The Commissioner to whom he alluded was asked two distinct sets of questions, one relating to his own opinion of the Act he was called upon to administer, and another set of questions which had nothing whatever to do with him as a Commissioner or administrator, but related to his opinions as a private individual. This Commissioner expressly stated to the Committee that he thought he was bound to apply these opinions as a Commissioner, yet when he was asked his private opinions, he with great frankness gave expression to his opinions. Now, what had been done was, that these private opinions of this Commissioner had been industriously circulated in order to prejudice the public against him, and in order to make that House and the public believe that these were the opinions that actuated him in carrying out the Act. That conduct he characterized, as he did still, as dishonourable. The Committee were not in the least responsible for it, but he thought the Secretary of State for
 578 579
 MR. FAWCETT  contended that that was his point. By observing that policy the Government might get rid of any Commission. It was only necessary for the Government to express its reluctance—to make a few intemperate speeches, and then one of its Members could say—"Are we to suppose that the Commission would like to serve under a reluctant Government? The Vice President said the Act of 1869 was allowed to pass because the Conservative party were dazed and confused; but he wished to point out that although about 200 schemes were subsequently proposed by the Commissioners, only one was challenged in that House. Not one Member of the present Government spoke against, and two Members of the Government supported, the conduct of the Commissioners. Could the Government give a stronger proof of their inconsistency than this—that this Commission against whom they now brought so many distinct and varied charges, and 42 of whoso schemes they had passed since coming into office, had not had one of its schemes objected to by the Government? The Government had utterly failed to prove that this Commission had neglected its duty or failed to carry out the Act which they were appointed to administer; and, in his opinion, the Commissioners had faithfully done their duty. They might depend upon it that if these Commissioners were dismissed, the country would come to the conclusion that the Government had done an unwise and unjust act.
 MR. FAWCETT  expressed his regret at having in the least degree misrepresented the right hon. Gentleman; but his words certainly conveyed that meaning to his ears, and to those, he believed, of several hon. Members near him.
 MR. FAWCETT  was understood to say that he appreciated as much as any one the jokes of the Prime Minister. ["Divide, divide."] As the House refused to listen to him, he begged to move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he had already stated his opinion that it was absolutely essential, before coming to a decision on the Amendment, that certain questions should be answered by the Government. He should repeat those questions, and if they were not answered at once, he should move that the Chairman report Progress. In the first place, did the Government repeat the charge made against the Commissioners, that they had administered these Acts of Parliament in a too undenominational spirit, and had devoted endowments to the nation which the Government wished to be, and intended, for the Church? Secondly,
 587
 MR. JACKSON  said, he thought that some of the questions of principle which had been raised could be more conveniently discussed when the Committee were made aware how, if at all, the clause was to be amended, and on the question whether the clause, as ultimately amended, would stand part of the Bill. For his part, he objected to the clause altogether, because it further extended what he regarded as a dangerous exemption which was created by the Act of 1869, and received further development in the Act of 1873. The general enactment stated that all those endowed schools were not to be denominational, but national; that the nation would respect the founder's will as far as education was concerned, but would disregard it so far as he directed the particular manner in which his bounty should be applied. That principle was departed from in 1869 and again in 1873, and, inasmuch as he objected to the exceptions made by the Acts of those years, he also objected, and strongly, to their further extension by the present Bill.
 MR. LAW  said, he desired to raise the broad and distinct issue which this clause challenged. He denied that a direction that a child should attend a particular church was equivalent to a direction that it should be instructed according to the doctrines and formularies of that church. The whole history of the Church of England was entirely opposed to the contrary supposition; and the fact alone that 2,000 clergymen were expelled from the Church at the time of the passing of the Act of Uniformity was sufficient in itself to establish the ac-curacy of the ground he took. He should be glad to have an explanation as to what was meant by the proposal to admit fresh evidence with reference to these foundations.
 MR. HOLT  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, "Whether Her
 552
 DR. LUSH  said, he denied that founders, however estimable may have been the spirit in which they acted in their own time, had any right to stereotype their views on succeeding generations. The late Earl of Bridgwater left a large sum of money to be applied for the purpose of inducing men of science and
 597
 DR. LUSH  moved to report Progress, on the ground that the Bill had come upon them by surprise.
 CAPTAIS NOLAN  complained of the manner in which the Bill was being hurried forward, and moved that the second reading should be postponed until his constituents had an opportunity of considering its provisions.
 MR. SERJEANT SIMON  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether the Local Government Board have refused to allow the guardians of the Dewsbury Union to make a money allowance in lieu of rations to the schoolmaster and schoolmistress of the workhouse, thereby requiring them to board their infant child out; and, if so, on what grounds?
 MR. SERJEANT SIMON  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether there has been any Correspondence relating to the capture of the "Virginius" beyond the Correspondence already printed; and, if so, will it be laid upon the Table of the House before the end of the present Session?
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  observed that the 19th clause of the Act of 1869 caused considerable discussion in the original Committee, and also in the Committee of last year, and an Amendment was proposed by the Secretary of State for War, which was negatived by the casting vote of the Chairman the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster)—the numbers being 9 for and 9 against it. It was not at all unreasonable, seeing that the present Government had such a large majority,
 604
 MR. WHITWELL  objected to the clause as endangering some of the most sacred principles which they wished to recognize in this Bill. They were dealing
 608 ex post facto
 MR. WHITWELL  moved, in page 2, line 11, to leave out from "appoint" to "salaries," in line 16, and insert—
 "a person to be a district Educational Commissioner, in pursuance of this Act, for each of the Registrar General's districts of England and
 589
 MR. DODDS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. DILLWYN  commented on the drafting of the Bill, which he considered exceedingly imperfect, and remarked that the House was being detained at that late period of the year to pass an ill-drawn and obscure measure, merely to suit the convenience of the Government. With regard to the question immediately at issue, he pointed out that in regard to the majority of foundations the intentions of the founders were not shown by express terms with regard to religious instruction, their primary object being to give education. The great objection in former years was to the attempt to give effect to the express terms of the will of the founder to the exclusion of Dissenters, and that was the objectionable object aimed at in this Bill. He was opposed to the clause.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR : The clause which is now before us is the foundation of the whole Bill, and requires exhaustive discussion. The opposite side think that we are talking against time, but we are really fighting the preliminary and fundamental clause of the whole Bill. It proposes to extinguish the existing Endowed School Commission, and to substitute it by the Charity Commission. Surely we have a right to examine this proposal in all its bearings. Now, what is the first effect of the proposed change? To transfer the administration from a body of large experience to a new body with no experience at all. The present Commission has a wealth of experience. Take the case of one of its members—Mr. Roby. That gentleman acted as Secretary to the Schools Inquiry Commission for three years, and so obtained a knowledge of the defects and the merits of all the endowed schools of the country. After years of toil in this inquiry, after again acting as Secretary of the Endowed Schools Commission, he was placed upon it as a Commissioner. Subjected for days to the severest examination upstairs as to the objects, nature, and position of endowed schools, he left the Select Committee, of which I was a Member, with surprise and admiration of his inexhaustible knowledge of the subject. This man, with his abundant wealth of knowledge and experience, you are about to dismiss, so far at least as we know, and may replace him by an absolutely new man without experience of any kind. And this is true also, in a less degree, with the other Commissioners. The first point, then, to which I take exception is this—that you transfer the administration of the Acts to a Commission having no equivalent of knowledge or experience, and having no skill or aptitude in administering Acts already difficult and complex, but which will be rendered of infinitely greater difficulty and complexity by the obscure clauses which you heap upon these Acts by the Bill before us. I say that this is a pernicious error in the principles of administration. The Bill admits that the Charity Commission is unfit for the new duties which you propose to give to it, because it provides that even after new Commissioners are appointed, technical knowledge shall be given to them by the
 581 582 583 584 585 586
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  moved, in page 16, line 12, after "body," to insert "or who fails to give the same, or"
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  remarked that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Talbot) had brought them back to the common-sense reading of the passage which they were discussing. If they took this clause in a broad, catholic manner, it would include particular sections, Churches, and denominations. Lot them take the case of the Rochester school—a post-Reformation school of 1541. The statutes of that school, which were not repealed, provided that "on holydays the grammar boys be present in the church …. every day when the holy mysteries are celebrated, and at the elevation of the host at High Mass," and that the boys "by twos and twos" were to say the psalm  Miserere Mei 605
 MR. MARK STEWART  said, that with the exception of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Lyon Playfair), no hon. Member north of the Tweed had addressed the Committee on this clause, and he claimed to be allowed to say a few words on this question. The hon. Member for Preston (Mr. Hermon) had very manfully told the Government what his opinion was, and he (Mr. Stewart) must say that that opinion was shared by the people north of the Tweed. There was a very strong feeling in Scotland upon questions affecting Nonconformists, and he ventured to say that the opinion there was, that it would be most advisable if the Government, after the decisive victory which they achieved earlier in the evening, could see their way to yield to the suggestion made to them to withdraw this clause from the Bill. The argument advanced by the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. Morley) was entitled to great weight, and if the Government would look fairly and dispassionately into this matter, they could not avoid seeing that it was not an unreasonable request that was being made to them. The great difficulty which he had in giving a vote on this occasion was that he could see that if the founders' wills were not to be respected they would be in great danger of drifting into a system of secular education, and there was no Gentleman in that House who deprecated more strongly than he did the establishment of any such system. This was not a question which he had approached for the first time, and he should use all his efforts, if necessary, to avert such a catastrophe happening. If they were to disregard the wills of founders who years ago left private property to private institutions, they would strike a most fatal blow at the security of property in this country; but the 19th clause of the Act of 1869 had met with a very fair response amongst all classes in the country and if they attempted to enlarge its scope he believed that it would give rise to bitter agitation which the Government would find it most difficult to allay. At the late period of the Session at which they had arrived, it was not too much to ask the Government to reconsider their decision in regard to this question.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether, having regard to the disappointment which the sudden reduction of the number of vacancies for Cadetships at Woolwich from forty or upwards to thirty must occasion to many youths who have been for the last one or two years preparing for the examination, it is the intention of the authorities to extend the limit of age from eighteen years to eighteen and a half, or nineteen years?
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR : I have felt it to be my duty on several previous occasions, when similar Motions have been brought before Parliament, to trouble the House of Commons with a statement of the reasons which have compelled me, on principle, to oppose these grants to Members of the Royal Family. The soundness of those reasons I hold with ever-increasing strength. They have never been answered, and, in my opinion, they are unanswerable. If there are points on which I have not been able to make my position good, it has been for want of better information—the blame of which does not rest with me. The late Government refused—I think most unwisely and improperly—to give the information asked for by the hon. Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles Dilke). He asked that the House and the country should have information which would prove that the Act of Parliament on which these proceedings all rest—the Civil List Act—had been carried out and worked in harmony with the spirit and the letter of that Act—a fact on which grave doubts had been thrown. It appears to me that a Government—from whichever side of the House they may come—should not only not desire to keep these matters back, but should take every opportunity of giving the information required. However that may be, I—in pursuance of those reasons which I have given to the House on several occasions, and which I do not intend to trouble the House with now—I now, on my own behalf, and on behalf of that small but gallant band who have previously voted with me against an overwhelming majority, make my protest against this Vote. We are not altogether so unimportant as our mere numbers would lead the House to suppose. On the last occasion there voted with me the Representatives of great commercial, popular, and intelligent communities, including those of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Birmingham, and Manchester. The 22 Members, including Tellers, who went into the Lobby with me represented constituencies amounting in the aggregate to 3,000,000 inhabitants. On the grounds, therefore, which I have formerly stated, and which I will not now repeat, I beg to enter my protest in the strongest terms against this Vote, and having done so, I shall not, so far as I
 560
 MR. MUNTZ  said that, not approving of the conduct of the Commissioners, he had voted with the Government to replace them by the Charity Commissioners; but when he came to this 4th and following clauses, he confessed he did not understand them. He was not devoid of forensic capacity, and he had read the clauses over and over again, and just when his doubts were partially removed, they were renewed by the speeches which he heard from right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite. Did they mean anything, or did they mean nothing? If they meant nothing, what, he would ask, was the use of pressing them on? If they had any meaning, he wished to know what that meaning was. If the Bill were intended as a reactionary measure, nothing could be more dangerous, as it was sure to give rise to reprisals. It would be an attempt to repeal recent enactments, in defiance of a large minority in this House and a larger majority outside, and when the tables were turned there would be reprisals, and he need not remind the House that the result of future elections would be very uncertain. He considered that the 4th, 5th, and 6th clauses ought never to have been inserted in the Bill, and therefore he appealed to the Government not to press them.
 MR. BOURKE , in reply, said, that the Correspondence on the subject of the capture of the  Virginius
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  admitted that there was considerable difficulty in coming to a clear understanding as to the meaning of a negative clause like Clause 19, which had been so much referred to. The words of Clause 4, providing that—
 "It shall be held to include any provision in the original instrument of foundation which enjoins the attendance of the scholars at the religious worship of any particular church, sect, or denomination."
 MR. SAMPSON LLOYD  moved, in line 40, after "districts of," to insert—
 "Superintendent Registrars (and this notwithstanding such districts have been heretofore temporary districts), and also the districts of."
 MR. SAMPSON LLOYD  moved to leave out the clause, on the ground that it would considerably diminish the scanty remuneration of the Registrars, by allowing a certificate to be obtainable for a fee of 3 d s d
 MR. SAMPSON LLOYD  moved, in page 15, line 31, to leave out "three months," and insert "forty-two days."
 MR. MORLEY  said, he was anxious to urge on the Government, in common with the hon. Member for Preston, to save the House from the humiliating position in which they were placed at that moment. He had endeavoured to ascertain what was the real meaning of this clause, and he was unable to arrive at any other conclusion than that its object was to give power to the Commissioners
 602
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, he had no doubt that if the Government withdrew the Bill, and entered into friendly communication with the Commissioners, they might next year submit to the House another measure which would give satisfaction to the country. He thought it was unwise to go on with this entangling legislation, which could not possibly be understood by country gentlemen or farmers, and urged the Prime Minister, if he were not controlled by some Members of the Cabinet, to give way to the suggestions which had come from his own side.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, as he understood, it was the intention of those who passed the Act of 1869 that the Commissioners should frame rules for all the schools, with special reservations for schools coming under Clause 19. But he believed there was a power given to the Commissioners to assent to modifications, so that the Governing Body of a cathedral school might admit laymen without taking a test. He would like to have the opinion of the Attorney General whether this power could be retained under the present Bill.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  in reply, said, that the Memorial had been referred to the Commissioners of Customs for their Report, and that Report had not yet been received,
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, he was aware that the promotion of the clerks had not been carried out in accordance
 550
 MR. W. H. SMITH  declined to go into the question of the trial. The Motion was, for the most part, unprecedented, and therefore he could not agree to it. The accounts, however, would undergo the strictest audit.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  said, the House had a right to an answer to the question put to the Attorney General, as to the meaning of certain words in this clause—namely—
 "Any evidence admissible by law shall be receivable as evidence of the contents of the original instrument of foundation, and of statutes and regulations made by the founder or under his authority."
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  said, the answer of the Attorney General to the question put to him by the hon. Baronet the Member for North Devon (Sir Thomas Acland) was perfectly satisfactory. He (Mr. Watkin Williams) hoped if no other good came from that measure, it would, by thoroughly exposing the present vicious mode of drawing Bills, tend to put a stop to it. He had read Clauses 4, 5, and 6 several times over, and had endeavoured to incorporate them into the Acts which the present Bill was proposed to amend; but owing to the faulty way in which the Bill had been drawn, the more he had sought to find out its meaning, the more difficult had the task become. Nothing would satisfy him short of the excision of the clauses just mentioned, for he certainly could not see that they would have the effect of admitting Nonconformists to the Governing Bodies of endowed schools.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  said, he thought that the explanation given by the Attorney General presented this clause in a still more objectionable form, and it would be a real disgrace to their legislation to pass such a Bill. It appeared to him that it was desired by the Government to do violence in an unprecedented way to the words "express terms of the original instrument of foundation." Of course, it was possible by legislation to make "yes" mean "no;" but he thought it was extremely inadvisable to introduce language of so strange a nature into an Act of Parliament.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that to his mind there could hardly be worse evidence in favour of denominational schools than the direction to attend a particular church, as the proposal was made by the Government. They all knew very well that in some cases this evidence would amount to this—that the children were told to attend mass before the period of the Reformation; but that was no evidence that they were told to attend the present Church of England. He objected to the direction to attend church previous to the Toleration Act being made evidence in favour of retaining a school as a denominational or Church school. He was grateful to the noble Lord for consenting to strike out the submission to the ecclesiastical authority, which would have brought in a large number of important foundations; but he could not say that he was inclined to admire the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for East Devon (Sir John Kennaway). That meant that none of the Governing Bodies should be disqualified for their religious faith. Now, what they on that (the Liberal) side of the House contended for, was that as regarded schools founded before the Toleration Act, which
 592
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought it was a very dangerous assumption for the friends of the Church to make, that because a founder who cared about education in the reign of Edward VI. or Elizabeth, or before the Reformation, simply stated, as was very natural for him, that he wished the children to go to church, therefore the school was to be claimed especially for the Church of England as against other denominations. He himself was in favour of religious education in both elementary and secondary schools; but it was impossible to adopt a worse way of securing that, in the present temper of the country, than by fixing by law that that education must be the education of a certain denomination, even though it was the Church of England, unless it was certain that the school belonged to that body.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  denied that he had had any desire on the previous
 573
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he was glad that the Prime Minister was now present, and he was sorry he was not present when the hon. Member for Preston (Mr. Hermon) said that as they had now decided the substance of the Bill, they should not fight over the shadow. He very much agreed with the hon. Gentleman, although not upon the same grounds. He thought that the principles
 601
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that several Members on the other side of the House had asked the Government not to proceed with this clause. It was usual when there were appeals from the supporters of the Government—and especially from important and influential supporters—for the Government to inform the House whether they considered these appeals had any weight. ["Divide."] He thought they could hardly come to a division without that information.
 MR. RATHBONE  adopted the view of the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Kay-Shuttle worth). The further they went with that Bill the more fresh difficulties would arise, and the more they would be brought to that which would be offensive to Nonconformists without doing the Church any good. Now that the Government had
 594
 MR. RATHBONE (for Mr. Bristowe)  asked Mr. Attorney General, "Whether any, and if so what, arrangements have been agreed upon for the alterations of the circuits; and when it is proposed to carry such alterations into effect?
 MR. A. BROWN  moved to amend the first part of the clause, which says—
 "In this Act and the Endowed Schools Acts the expression 'express terms of the original instrument of foundation,' shall he held to include any provision in the original instrument of foundation which enjoins the attendance of the scholars at the religious worship of any particular church, sect, or denomination." 590
 MR. A. BROWN  said, he thought that, after the long discussion that had taken place, the division should be taken at once. He would only say that, as it appeared to be admitted that the Endowed Schools Commissioners had done good service to the country, their services should be retained in some form or other.
 SIR ARTHUR GUINNESS  hoped the Bill would be at once proceeded with, as the works—commenced during the time of the Famine and then abandoned—had since remained a nuisance to the neighbourhood.
 SIR CHARLES LEGARD  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the recent investigation into the alleged fight between a dwarf and a bull-dog at Hanley has led to any reliable information as to the truth of the circumstances so reported; or whether such a fight did in reality take place?
 MR. CHARLES LEWIS  moved that the Chairman should report Progress.
 MR. CHARLES LEWIS  said, he had all along hitherto voted with the Government for this Bill, but he could not do so on this occasion. It must not be supposed that in voting for the omission of these words he was voting against religious education. He was not going to discuss the question as a lawyer, because it seemed to him not to be a question for a lawyer. They were asked by the particular words of the clause to strain the intentions of the founders of those institutions; and looking at the Amendment, he was forced to say he should feel bound to vote for it. There were to his knowledge many Members on the Ministerial side of the House who would feel great relief if some arrangement were made by which they would not be called upon to vote.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  remarked that the hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Beresford Hope) had said that in the Committee to which he had referred a considerable degree of haziness had prevailed, and he (Sir Francis Goldsmid) thought that those who had listened with attention to the observations of the hon. Member, would be of opinion that the mist had not yet entirely cleared away. He (Sir Francis Goldsmid.) trusted that the Government, when they finally decided on their course respecting this Bill, would listen to the clear and sensible advice of the hon. Member for Preston (Mr. Hermon) rather than to the cloudy counsels of the hon. Member for Cambridge University. On the wording of the clause under discussion he (Sir Francis Goldsmid) had but a few words to say, because it was difficult for any observations to make plainer its intrinsic absurdity. It was proposed to declare by Act of Parliament that "express terms" should moan what was not express, but consisted of a number of inferences, more or less weak, one of them so feeble that it had already been very properly abandoned by the Government in deference to the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the other Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Spencer Walpole). But the proposal became more amusing still when it was remembered that the reason given for it was the difficulty felt by the Commissioners in discovering the meaning of the phrase "express terms." He (Sir Francis Goldsmid) would mention a course of proceeding which would be strictly analogous to this. Let them suppose that two owners of adjoining estates or fields had been for some time puzzled to ascertain their exact boundaries, and had been painfully endeavouring to trace the line of some old wall or hedge. In the middle of the operation one of the proprietors might say to the other—"This is a very troublesome business, and I am not sure that after all it will
 600
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, everybody had agreed that the terms as they stood hero would not do. That being so, and as, according to hon. Gentlemen opposite, there was no principle involved, why should the Government insist upon the clause? He hoped the wise and conciliatory policy advocated by the hon. Member for Preston would be adopted.
 MR. GOLDNEY  maintained that there was no new principle laid down by this clause, and that this was a mere change of words for the purpose of giving clearness to what the Commissioners wished to convey. The sole effect of the clause was, that instead of leaving the matter simply to the opinion of the Commissioners, they were to receive evidence. There was no religious principle involved beyond what was contained in Clause 19 in the original Act, and therefore all the alarm excited by this clause ought to have been excited when the Act of 1869 was before the House.
 SIR HENRY PEEK  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether he will state what steps the Government is prepared to take in order to mitigate the hardships which may arise from prosecutions under the Adulteration of Food Act before an opportunity has been afforded for submitting to Parliament such amendments in the law as have been suggested by the Select Committee who have recently reported on the subject?
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will furnish Returns of the number and dates of the sittings held by the late and present Arbitrator under the European Assurance Society Arbitration Act of 35 and 36 Vic. c. 145?
 SIR JOHN HAY  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, If any of the ships despatched for the observation of the Transit of Venus have broken down; and, whether the necessary observations will be hindered in consequence?
 SIR JOHN HAY (for Mr. FORSYTH)  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will lay upon the Table Copies of any representations which have been recently made to Her Majesty's Government by the Committee of West India Planters and Merchants, and of any Despatches consequent thereupon on the subject of the injury inflicted upon the British sugar producing Colonies by the continued exportation of sugar under bounty from Prance and other continental countries; and, whether Her Majesty's Government, seeing the disastrous consequences likely to ensue to the sugar trade of the United Kingdom if steps are not taken to place sugar imported into this Country from the British Colonies upon an equal footing with that imported from the Continent, will take measures as soon as possible to remedy the grievances complained of?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, there was, of course, no objection to produce the representations that had been made to the French and other Governments on the subject; but that was a matter that more concerned the Foreign Office than the Treasury; and he would observe that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ritchie) recently obtained a Return on this subject from the Treasury; and he would suggest that the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone should move for the Paper he wished for, and that it should be added
 553
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  asked the Secretary of State for "War, If he will state to the House the course he intends to take with regard to the Report and Recommendations of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into certain Memorials from Officers in the Army in reference to the Abolition of Purchase?
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, that before he referred to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Wenlock (Mr. A. Brown), it might be convenient that he should state what Amendments in this clause Her Majesty's Government would be prepared to assent to. In the first speech he made on this subject he used these words—
 "Her Majesty's Government did not propose any more than the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Forster) that members of the Governing Body should necessarily be of a particular creed, or that the masters of schools should be in Holy Orders." "Provided always, That in every scheme within the provisions of section nineteen of the Endowed Schools Act, 1869, as amended by this Act for an endowed school under this Act and the Endowed Schools Acts, or any of them, the provisions contained in section seventeen of the Endowed Schools Act, 1869, shall be inserted and made applicable to one-third at the least of the members of the Governing Body, unless there he in the original instrument of foundation, any provision directing that the whole of the Governing Body shall he members of a particular Church or denomination."
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, the object which the hon. Member had in view commended itself very much to the attention of the Government. It was, no doubt, a very important thing that local feeling should be enlisted in favour of the public schools; but the Government was of opinion that that object would practically be met by the appointment of additional assistant Commissioners, which would probably be found necessary, who would not be always resident in London, and who would put themselves into communication with the leading people in the districts with which they were connected. He trusted that the hon. Member would not press his Amendment.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said the matter referred to by his hon. and gallant Friend was under the consideration of the Government, with a view to ascertain whether any measure could be introduced with regard to it.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The right hon. Gentleman, Sir, has made a statement of great importance with respect to Public Business, combining with a statement of facts considerable reference to justifying pleas. I am aware there is no question before the House, but I think the statement of the right hon. Gentleman on the condition of Public Business can hardly be received entirely without comment, and therefore I am prepared to conclude with a Motion, though I do not feel it necessary to dwell at any length upon the particular points of that statement. There is no doubt that the statement will be reviewed in various senses and upon various occasions, and the Speech which Her Majesty was advised to deliver at the commencement of the Session will be carefully compared with the altered and almost exhausted list which the right hon. Gentleman has now laid before us. I do not think there can be any objection, as far as I understand it, to the order in which he proposes to proceed with Public Business, although I confess I am disappointed in his having departed from a declaration which he was undoubtedly entitled to depart from. I am disposed to regret his having departed from a declaration which he made some time ago, that the right hon. and learned Recorder should be allowed to proceed with the Public Wor-
 629 630 631 "Sanguine placâstis ventos et virgine cæsâ, Quum primum Iliacas, Danai, venistis ad oras; Sanguine quiærendi reditus, animâque litandum Argolicâ." 632
 MR. HUBBARD (London)  said, as there was no subject on which the feelings of his constituents at the last General Election were more interested than the treatment of endowed schools, he asked permission to say a few words. He had taken great pains to compare the Acts of 1869 and 1873 and the present Bill. He should be most unwilling to transfer the working of these Acts to a new body, or to leave them in the hands of the old body, with nothing but the two former Acts to guide them. There ought to be no ambiguity in such a measure as that, and yet last night's discussion on the 4th clause of
 640 641
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , replying to the question put by the hon. Member for Denbigh (Mr. Watkin Williams), said the non-prosecution during the present Session of the Bill for the Amendment of the Judicature Act would render it essential to postpone for another 12 months the coming into operation of the Act of last year. It was intended to introduce a Bill for that purpose.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, if the hon. and learned Member would place his Question on the Paper, he would endeavour to answer it tomorrow.
 MR. MITCHELL-HENRY  said, he wished, before the discussion closed, to make reference to another important Bill which had now disappeared below the horizon, and to make a suggestion to Her Majesty's Government respecting it. He alluded to the Irish Judicature Bill. If the House had gone into Committee on the Bill, it would have done so with very imperfect information before it; but he thought they had a claim to be placed in as good a position as the House was as regarded the system of English jurisprudence. In 1867 a Royal Commission, upon which several distinguished persons sat, together with members of the legal profession, was appointed to consider the judicial system of England, but that had as yet been very imperfectly done as regarded Ireland. It was true that an exclusively legal Commission was appointed in 1862, to examine and report on the procedure and fees of the Superior Courts of Ireland, both of Common Law and Chancery. But that Commission was defective in two respects. In the first place, the general public were not represented on it, and in the second, the difficulties of obtaining meetings of the Commission were so great, that a year after its appointment, the quorum necessary for the transaction of business was obliged to be reduced from six to three; and in the end, one of the most distinguished of its members, Sir Joseph Napier, made a separate Report of his own. Now, he knew that if the discussion of the Judicature Bill had gone on, facts would have been made known to the House of a very startling kind, showing the extraordinary inflation of the whole judicial establishments in Ireland; and as a sort of summary of the whole thing, he would now only say that it was conclusively shown that the 19 or 20 Superior Judges in Ireland discharged only one-fourth or one-fifth of the business transacted by 27 Superior Judges in England. One of the most acute and independent Judges in Ireland had drawn attention to these matters, in a series of powerful writings; and it was impossible that his statements and inferences could be ignored in any
 643
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that without bringing any complaint against the present Commissioners, he thought the vote against them had been necessary, as a protest against certain sentiments that had been uttered. The hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett), for example, had spoken of the rejection of the Commissioners as a step that would be fatal to the permanence of constitutional go-vernment
 645
 MR. GOLDSMID  thanked the Government for having adopted the suggestion he had made that they should withdraw the clauses to which objection had been taken—namely, the clause under notice, as well as Clauses 5, 6, and 7. He would only add one remark—namely, that he thought it was desirable that in future the draftsmen employed by the Government to draw Bills, should
 646
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the clause was merely substituted for the 48th clause of the Act of 1869, which was repealed in the Schedule.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  inquired, whether it was intended that the Endowed Schools Commissioners should submit schemes to the Education Department till December? If Clause 48 was absolutely repealed, it appeared to him that the powers of the Commissioners to submit schemes would lapse entirely. It was desirable that words should be introduced to give the Commissioners power to submit schemes till December.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the latter part of the 3rd section of Clause 1 gave the power in question, and removed the difficulty pointed out.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  thought the words in Clause 1 related only to the concurrent powers of the Commissioners. By repealing Clause 48 there would be no machinery for controlling those powers. He hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would consider this matter before the Report.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  promised to give the subject his fullest consideration.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there could be no objection to the principle of the clause; but it appeared to him that it was not necessary.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  pointed out that the county committees must not expect to avoid incurring unpopularity, as that was inherent in dealing with the endowed schools.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the Amendment might be accepted.
 THE CHAIRMAN  pointed out that the hon. Member was discussing a subject which did not arise on the Amendment.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  was sorry that a dispute should arise on what was immaterial, when what was really material had ceased to be in the Bill. He did not disguise his opinion on the matter. But he must point out that there was now no necessity for the Preamble. He would remind the Committee that last year, the Commissioners stated, when examined, that they did not consider there was such a thing as a real and liberal education without religious instruction. No doubt the Commissioners who would carry out the provisions of the Bill would act upon that principle.
 MR. SULLIVAN  warned the Committee, that unless the Amendment was accepted, it would be necessary to raise the question of the original founder who had been a Roman Catholic.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  advised that the Amendment be withdrawn, in order that the Preamble might be omitted.
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  asked, what provisions remaining in the Bill, the Ereamble would refer to?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that that was the third day of the discussion, and he would suggest that hon. Members should now allow the Bill to go
 677
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in moving "That the Bill be now read the second time," said, the corps to which it referred were excluded from the Army Regulation Bill, and, therefore, there was no power to compensate the officers for the bonuses they had paid on their commissions. The late Government had intended to allow the system of such bonuses to die out gradually, but were advised that such a course was illegal. A correspondence ensued between the India Office and the War Office on the subject, and a dispute arose as to the source of payment. In the meantime, the officers were suffering great hardship. It was therefore agreed between himself and his noble Friend at the India Office to refer that question to an eminent retired Judge, and the Bill was the result of his decision. He made it a condition of the arrangement that the funds now in possession of the different corps should be handed over to the general fund. That condition had been included in the Bill, and its fairness would, he thought, be at once apparent and admitted. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  asked the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Marylebone, Whether he would postpone his Motion on the Paper for that evening, and allow the House to go on with the Scotch Patronage Bill?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, with reference to the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Maidstone, just negatived, that if he could have supposed the hon. Gentleman would persist in going on with his Motion, he should have been in his place. With regard to the Motion of his hon. Friend (Sir Eardley Wilmot), he was anxious that he should have an opportunity of bringing it forward, although he must candidly tell his hon. Friend that he did not think that House the proper place to originate the question of honours to the officers and men in Her Majesty's service.
 THE CHAIRMAN : I must inform the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that I have had an opportunity of consulting the highest authorities in the House as to the language of the Amendment, and I must tell him and the Committee, that the first sentence being unusual, unprecedented, and irregular, I cannot put it to the Committee. It has never been the practice of Parliament to make recommendations to other bodies, but to enact laws; and I can only put to the Committee the latter part of the Amendment—the operative part.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : The hon. and gallant Member was quite right in having voted against the second reading of the Bill, if he intended to propose this Amendment, for it is quite inconsistent with the purport and tenour of the Bill. I was as surprised that he objected to the second reading of the Bill, because last Session, he said that he would vote for the abolition of patronage. It is, however, quite out of the question that an Amendment of this kind can be adopted by the Committee. The Amendment is apparently of this character—patronage is to be repealed nominally or provisionally, or in some way which I do not understand, and the Lord High Commissioner, representing Her Majesty is to have the whole of the patronage placed in his hands, at least, until the General Assembly of the Established Church shall have made arrangements with the other Presbyterian Churches. But with respect to that, I regret to say that we have had no encouragement to enter into consultation with those Churches. In the month of April, before the Bill was brought forward, there were meetings in Glasgow and Edinburgh of the two principal Dissenting Presbyteries, and there the Free Church and the other ministers intimated that they could have no communication with the Government in reference to the question of the abolition of patronage. Therefore, it would be vain for us to approach those Churches; and although I hope matters may mend in this respect, I regret to say that, so far as any open declaration on their part is concerned, we have had hitherto no encouragement. We are, however, sincerely desirous that there should be a reconciliation of the Presbyterian Churches, and I wish to avoid using any language which might produce an irritating effect, or tend to prevent that good feeling which I trust will
 689
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Before the Act of Queen Anne was passed, the right of presentation was in the communicants and members of the congregation. [Mr. LEIH: No; the congregation only.] In the congregation, which included the communicants. I do not see anything material in the Amendment, but I am not inclined to oppose it.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Lord Aberdeen's Act is repealed, as well as the Act of Queen Anne.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  was of opinion that the Act of 1690 did not give the heritors or elders a right of presenting a minister to a parish, but merely the right of proposing one. That meaning of the Act was laid down by the official representing the Lord Advocate of that day, and the objection of respectable parishioners was held good.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  hoped the discussion would not be allowed to range over the whole of the seven proposals, and therefore he would suggest that for the present it should be limited to the question of the ratepayers. He believed that there was a great objection to the Amendment on both sides of the House; and that it was as much opposed to the principles of the Free Church and of the united Presbyterians as it was to those of the Established Church. The object of the Bill was to put the Church of Scotland into the position in which she was originally. The general principle of all Presbyterian Churches, he understood, was that no minister should be imposed upon them simply by the nomination of a patron, but that the congregations should have the power of electing their ministers, and what they wanted by this Bill was to put the Church of Scotland on the same footing as the other denominations. If the Committee were to insert "ratepayers" in the clause, they would do that which no Presbyterian Body would do of themselves.
 MR. GRANT DUFF : I regret that I cannot support the Amendment of my hon. Friend behind me; nor, to say the truth, do I see a single Amendment on the Paper which I care to support. It seems, indeed, to me, that the fairest and justest course that can be taken by those who, like myself, disapprove of the Bill from beginning to end, and who made their protest against it by voting with my right hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, is to let hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite pass it, much in the form in which they have brought it in, merely expressing a hope that it will turn out a happier measure for Scotland than I fear it will.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would accept the Amendment, subject to the subsequent definition of congregation.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTEUTHER  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, lines 3 and 4, after "respectively," insert "and in the congregation of any other Protestant church or churches in the parish." He considered that as far as the Free Church were concerned, they went out of the Church in 1843 upon free principles; and the demand made by that Church, it was utterly impossible to assent to. They still remained out, and he (Sir Robert Anstruther) submitted that they should fall back upon the Act of 1690, when the ministers were elected by the congregations. He thought the Amendment would prove of immense benefit to the Establishment
 699
 COLONEL MUEE  supported the Amendment, the adoption of which would, he believed, induce many persons to withdraw their opposition to that measure. He did not believe that the proposal of his hon. Friend would compel any one to take part in the election of ministers. By creating discontent among the Dissenting Bodies of Scotland, that Bill, as it stood, would undermine the position of the Established Church, and the day was not far distant when they would combine to attack her. In order to pre-vent that eventuality, the object they
 701
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , although sympathizing to a considerable extent with the object of the hon. Member for Fife, and being anxious for agreement among the different Presbyterian Churches, yet felt himself unable to accept that Amendment. If he had made such a proposal himself, he might have been accused of offering the other Churches a bribe to bring them over. From communications he had held with them he believed that members of the Free Church did not want the privilege which the Amendment would give them and that they concurred in the view expressed by the hon. Member for Falkirk (Mr. Ramsay).
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the question had already been disposed of, involving as it did, the extension of the electoral body to "ratepayers" and
 702
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  opposed the Amendment. The Bill abolished the civil rights of election, and to the Church Courts ought to be given the power of settling disputes which might arise under the new system of election.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  hoped that the hon. Member would allow the clause to pass.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  regretted that the Government had withdrawn the amending clauses of the Endowed Schools Bill. If they were obscure, the Government and the Law Officers of the Crown were to blame in not clearing them up. It was admitted that Clause 19 of the Act of 1869 was so obscure that the Commissioners had been in great difficulty as to how they ought to act. He attached less importance to the  personnel
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  deprecated any renewal of discussion on these points, and suggested that it would be better to strike out the Preamble altogether.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not gone through the whole of the measures promised in the Speech from the Throne, inasmuch as he had omitted all reference to the Church Patronage (Scotland) Bill, to which hon. Members from the other side of the Tweed attached great importance. If some of the measures promised at the opening of the Session had not been proceeded with, the cause was not very far to seek. At the commencement of the Session, the Government did not anticipate the prolonged ecclesiastical debates, and which had not yet been concluded, upon the Bill, introduced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder of London. Was the Government responsible for the great delay which those debates had necessarily caused? Did the right hon. Gentleman think the Government would have been justified in not affording any facilities for the discussion of that important measure? Then, again, could the Government and the House have been prepared for the excessive vehe-
 636
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that by the new contract with the Peninsular and Oriental Company, which he hoped would be in the hands of hon. Members to-morrow or Monday, it was arranged that the Company might run their steamers with any portion of the mails through the Suez Canal. No part of the mails would be retarded in consequence; on the contrary, there would be an acceleration for both the heavy and light mails to the extent of 24 hours. A deduction of £20,000 a-year had been made from the subsidy on account of this change. An additional saving would be effected in consequence of no premium being paid in future, and there would be a further saving arising from the fact that payments by the Company in respect of overtime would henceforth be compulsory. Altogether, the saving under the new contract would amount to about £24,000 a-year.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE , referring to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, desired to call particular attention to the promise which that statement contained—that the dropped clauses of the Bill now before the House should be re-introduced next year as a substantive
 633 634
 MR. BERESFORD-HOPE  said, that there would be no insinuation in the words, which were simply a plain direction. Although certain clauses had been abandoned, they expected to have an equivalent for them next year. He did not value one rush the material Conservatism of the hon. Member who last night and to-day had put himself forward as the leader of the irreligious Conservatives. ["Oh, oh!"] Perhaps he ought to say the undenominational Conservatives. ["Order!"]
 MR. BERESFORD-HOPE  explained that unless he thought the Bill would promote a better system of religious education he would vote against it.
 MR. BERESFORD-HOPE  said, he should oppose the omission of those words.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE , moved as an Amendment, in page 2, line 5, to omit the words from "London" to the word "Middlesex" in line 8. The hon. Member said his reason for doing so was, that these tramways were generally objected to by the inhabitants of the metropolis.
 MR. ORR EWING  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that it would form an insurmountable barrier to the union of the Established and Free Churches of Scotland. He believed the General Assembly had a strong objection to it, and if they wanted a union with the Free Church, they must get them to come in in some other way.
 MR. ORR EWING  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 2, the omission of "communicants and other members of the," so as to leave the election vested in the "congregation."
 MR. ORR EWING  said, the hon. Member for Aberdeen (Mr. Leith) objected to the Amendment, because the previous Acts did not mention communicants as forming the congregation. If the House intended that the ratepayers should have the right, then he thought it would be inconsistent to put the Amendment; but he thought they should take a division to settle whether the ratepayers were to have the right.
 MR. ORR EWING : The congregations of Scotland do not like the Act of Parliament to declare a right which they believe they possess already.
 MR. ORR-EWING  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 2, to leave out the word "shall," and to insert the words "is hereby declared to."
 MR. ORR EWING : Mr. Speaker—Considering the late period of the Session, the length of the debate on the second reading of this Bill, and the large majority with which it was carried, I regret that the hon. Member for Dundee—who himself is not a Scotchman, although a Scotch Member—has thought it necessary to renew the discussion and prevent this Bill going into Committee. Both the speeches which have just been delivered might have very well been postponed until the House had before it the question of the disestablishment of the Church of Scotland, for, in fact, they were nothing more than disestablishment speeches. I did not speak on the second reading of the Bill as the measure had been so fully discussed, and I was so anxious that the House should come to a vote; but there are one or two points raised by the hon. Member who moved this Amendment, which I desire to reply to. He said—this is a Bill brought in by the Church against the wishes of the people of Scotland. I should like to know on what authority he makes that statement? Was it not the case that the General Assembly almost unanimously supported this Bill? Was it not the case that meetings of 3,000 or 4,000 of the laity were hold in Edinburgh and Glasgow which unanimously supported the abolition of patronage? I myself attended a meeting of the citizens of Glasgow, where there were not less than 4,000 people. Have there been any similar meetings held in opposition to the abolition of patronage? Not one. It was a mere fiction, therefore, to say that this Bill was introduced against the wishes of the people of Scotland. The opposition to this Bill is from the clergy, not from the laity of Scotland. We all know that the Liberation Society of England sent an emissary some two months ago into Scotland—Mr. Carvell Williams, I believe, was his name—to rouse the people of Scotland to a sense of their duty, and to warn them that if they allowed this Bill to pass, they would perpetuate the Church of Scotland for generations. What was the result of that visit? A complete failure. That gentleman convened meetings in
 671 672 de jure de facto 673 674 675 676
 LIEUT-COLONEL HAYTER  contended that the subject embraced in the Motion of the hon. Baronet was one which, sooner or later, would have to be dealt with by the Government. The City Volunteers, indeed, had no hope of getting possession of the ground referred to, unless the Government lent them their assistance. He thought it was a pity that some 3,000 should be sacrificed to about 150.
 MR. A. MILLS  said, he had visited the locality, and saw no objection to the proposed extension.
 CAPTAIN BEDFORD PIM  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the facts connected with the loss of the "Thistle" steamer, of Hull, have been brought to his notice; and if so, if any action thereon is proposed to be taken?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have no doubt the hon. Gentleman is sincere in his desire to save the time of the House by asking this series of Questions; but he must know that they necessarily require rather long Answers. With reference to the first point referred to by the hon. Gentleman, I believe there is no doubt that the terms of the Irish Church Act with regard to the presentation of the account of the Church Temporalities Commissioners and the Report of the Controller and Auditor General have not been strictly complied with. It must, however, be borne in mind that the account is a complicated one, and that it has given rise to considerable correspondence between the Commissioners
 621 "Whether the Returns promised by the First Lord of the Treasury of the payments made under the process of commuting and compounding in the Irish Church, and of the names, livings, and residences of the Clergymen who have commuted and compounded, are in course of preparation and when they will be laid upon the Table?" 622
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am very much in favour of royal residences, particularly when they are inhabited; and the great interest I take in Ireland would make me much rejoice if there were royal residences in that country inhabited by members of the Royal Family.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it may be convenient to the House that I should now notice the present position of Public Business, so that hon. Gentlemen may form some estimate of the prospect before us. For some time, unfortunately, I have seen that the Land Bills which have been introduced by Her Majesty's Government for the consideration and approval of the House, have but a very poor chance of being passed this Session. Though their interest is not of an urgent character, they are excellent Bills, and I trust the time is not far distant when they will be passed into law. There is another group of Bills which until recently I thought it was possible to pass—namely, the Judicature Bills. Her Majesty's Government was anxious that those Bills should be passed. They are measures in which we take much interest, and the delay with reference to them, no doubt, has been occasioned in a great degree by the time occupied in the preparation of the new Rules. I need not remind the House that those Rules required the greatest consideration and the highest exercise of the intellect of some of the
 626 627 628
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the House would sit at 12 to-morrow to discuss and dispose of the Expiring Laws Continuance Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that would depend upon the courtesy of other hon. Gentlemen who had Motions on the Paper.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, the facts connected with the loss of the  Thistle 624
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that one element had been overlooked that bad a powerful effect in deciding the late Parliament to terminate promptly what might be now called the late Endowed Schools Commission, and it was this: Those Commissioners, in correspondence which it was in his power to produce, declared that no matter how well con-ducted schools might be which were designed for the labouring and the poorer classes, they should, under certain conditions, laid down by themselves, be taken away from the education of those classes, and applied to that of the middle and better classes; and it was in order to put an end to that policy that it was proposed to terminate the powers of the Commissioners. He looked upon it as a policy of confiscation of the property of the labouring classes, with the ultimate view of rating and taking them, and he therefore wished to express the confidence he felt that the transfer to the Charity Commissioners of the powers of the Endowed Schools Commission would insure for these communities of the labouring and poorer people, a security against the class legislation which disgraced the policy of the latter Commissioners.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  pointed out that if the Committee struck out only the first part of the Preamble, they might be held to have negatived the instructions enjoining the Commissioners to promote religious education, whereas if they struck out the whole, it would be clear that they wished to secure peace, and avoid embarrassing the Commissioners. struck out resumed reported; Monday printed
 COLONEL ALEXANDER  said, every hon. Member who knew the Highland parishes was acquainted with the fact, that in the Highlands there was a particular prejudice against taking the Sacrament, and it was only on particular occasions it was partaken of, and therefore
 694
 MR. M'LAREN  admitted that there was no doubt patronage was abolished by the Act in question, but it did not follow that it was transferred to the public. That was one of the evils which the friends of the Established Church had to complain of.
 MR. M'LAREN  failed to see that the Act of 1690 gave the people of Scotland a satisfactory right to have a voice in the election of ministers.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, if he had to choose one of the seven Amendments, he should certainly choose the one of his hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow, for he considered it the right of every parishioner to vote for the election of minister. Its justice was shown by the fact that half of the people in Scotland did not belong to the Established Church. This, however, might be said against it, that in some instances the ratepayers might be a narrower constituency than the communicants.
 MR. M'LAREN  thought that if the clause was to be amended, it should be by adding the words "heritors" or "ratepayers," and not in the manner proposed.
 MR. M'LAREN  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been called to the fact that the capital sum expended in the purchase and formation of the Post Office Telegraphs, amounting at the 31st of December 1873, to £9,465,197, has yielded a net revenue of only £95,956 (Parl. Paper, No. 266), or about one per cent on the outlay; whether the Treasury have taken any steps to prevent the expenditure of additional capital for unremunerative works, or any steps for reducing the expenses of management, with the view of obtaining a better return for the capital invested; whether he can state the amount of additional capital expended since 31st December last; and, whether he can give an estimate of the probable amount which will still have to be paid to Companies for Telegraphs and rights which had been acquired by the Post Office, and had been worked during the last year, so as to contribute to the small net revenue received, although not yet paid for to the Companies from whom they had been acquired?
 MR. HORSMAN  said he heartily supported the Amendment as calculated to render the Established Church more national, and so to prevent her disestablishment; but he would suggest that the word "Presbyterian" should be substituted for "Protestant," as he thought his hon. Friend had made a mistake in using the latter term. They were now
 700
 MR. HORSMAN  suggested they should select one out of the seven similar Amendments and divide upon it to save time. By adopting that course a door might be opened to bring back the three great religious Bodies, which were one in doctrine and practice, into unity; and then the Bill would be a most useful one. After what the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grant Duff) had said, he (Mr. Horsman) wondered the hon. Member did not go to bed instead of sitting there. If by the Bill all came back to one Church the measure would be extremely creditable to the Government and very satisfactory to the House to pass.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he was rather perplexed with the explanation, but he understood that the Bill was to make a change in the existing law. By the existing law the right of nominating ministers was vested in the patron. They repealed that, and intended to vest it in the communicants and congregation; but he understood the Lord Advocate to say that by the simple repeal of the Act of Queen Anne, things went back to their former state, and vested it in the congregation. Now, by Lord Aberdeen's Act, the right of patrons was continued, but subject to the rights of congregations. That was existing law.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that amongst other questions raised was this—"What is a Dissenter?" In England, they knew very well what a Dissenter was, and they knew what it was in Ireland also; but in Scotland, there were no Dissenters, and therefore the term was not so well understood. They had the Free Kirk and the United Presbyterians; but there was no difference either in their creed or worship, and they went out from the Established Church merely on the question of patronage. As there were as many as seven Amendments on the Paper, each fixing a different constituency for the election of the ministers, and each evincing a dissatisfaction at the narrowness of its existing scope, the Committee ought to choose that one which opened the door widest, so as to facilitate the return of the Free Church and the United Presbyterians into the body of the Established Church, now that patronage, the point on which they had separated, was done away with. They should choose that Amendment which would unite the greatest amount of support. He did not think the proposal to make the ratepayers the electoral body would meet with much support in Scotland, and therefore he would advise the hon. Gentleman the Member for Glasgow to withdraw his Amendment. It was clear that the constituency must be a religious, a Congregational, a Presbyterian, or a Protestant constituency, and the Amendment which most fully answered those requirements was that of his hon. Friend the Member for Fifeshire (Sir Robert Anstruther). All the three Churches he had mentioned were identical in doctrine and ceremonial, and would become identical in government, if they had the opportunity given to
 695
 MR. HORSMAN  also hoped the hon. Member would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  said, he was willing to do so, but would like to know whether the House would go on with the Bill after the adjournment?
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS , in rising to move an Amendment, said: Sir, I rise with much reluctance at this period of the Session, to interfere between the House and going into Committee on the Bill; and it is known to Her Majesty's Government that I should have been willing to withdraw my opposition to the Bill in consideration of the position of Public Business, had it not been that I knew that a number of my hon. Friends on this side of the House, Representatives of Scotland, desire to have an opportunity
 652 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is not expedient, in abolishing the existing rights of Patronage in Scotland, to ignore the other Presbyterian bodies, and to legislate for the exclusive benefit of the Established Church." 653 654 655 656 657 658 "You were telling me about Scotland, that you yourself thought it ripe." "Unquestionably—the original plan was to have established our hierarchy when the Kirk split up; but that would have been a mistake. It was not then ripe. There would have been a fanatical reaction. There is always a tendency that way in Scotland, As it is, at this moment the Establishment and the Free Kirk are mutually sighing for some compromise which may bring them together again, and if the proprietors would give up their petty patronage, some flatter themselves it might be arranged. But we are thoroughly well-informed, and have provided for all this. We sent two of our best men into Scotland some time ago, and they have invented a new Church, called the United Presbyterians. John Knox himself was never more vigilant or more mischievous. The United Presbyterians will do the business; they will render Scotland simply impossible to live in; and then, when the crisis arrives, the distracted and despairing millions will find refuge in the bosom of their only mother. That is why, at home, we wanted delay in the publication of the bull and the establishment of the hierarchy." 659 660 "not confining themselves to the determination of civil actions, they have stepped beyond the province allotted to them by the constitution, deciding not only actions civil but causes spiritual and ecclesiastical, and that too even when they had no connection with the exercise of the right of patronage; and have united the jurisdiction, and encroached upon the spiritual privileges, of the Courts of this Church." "And we further protest that any Assembly constituted in submission to the conditions now declared to be law, is not, and shall not be, deemed a free and lawful Assembly of the Church of Scotland according to the original and fundamental principles thereof, and that the Claim, Declaration, and Protest shall be holden as setting forth the true constitution of the Church, and that the said Claim, along with the laws of the Church now subsisting, shall in no wise be affected by whatsoever acts and proceedings of any Assembly constituted under the conditions now declared to be law, and in submission to the coercion now imposed on the Establishment." 661 662 663
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  said, in that case he should not proceed with his Motion calling the attention of the House to the circumstances attending an alleged Zulu rising in Natal.
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  gave Notice that on Monday he would move for the Returns for which he had asked.
 MR. EDWARD JENKINS  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, referring to the Report of the Auditor General upon the Account of the Commissioners of Church Temporalities in Ireland, Whether the reason therein given for not presenting the Report up to December 31st, 1872, until June 1st, 1874, is satisfactory to the Government; why, in accordance with sec. 37 of the Irish Church Act, the Accounts of the Commissioners up to December 31st, 1873, have not yet been laid before Parliament, with the Report of the Auditor General; whether, in view of the fact that it appears that the Solicitor to the Irish Church Temporalities Commissioners, is stated to have "received moneys on behalf of the Commissioners, the orders being payable to him, and lodged them in his own bank in his own name," retaining them there instead of paying them into the Bank of Ireland to the proper account; that it also appears that although on the 18th September 1873, the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury "informed the Irish Church Commissioners that they considered that the arrears recovered by the Solicitor should be paid direct to their account in gross instead of to himself personally," yet, on the 24th November, 1873, Mr. Treherne
 620
 COLONEL EGERTON LEIGH  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether a measure for the additional protection of women and children from the violence of men, will be introduced by Government as soon as possible next Session?
 MR. ERNEST NOEL  said, he was of opinion that if such a power as that proposed in the Amendment were given to the ratepayers, they might elect a minister who might be of some denomination different from that of the Church, or of no denomination whatever, which could not but be regarded as an insult to the Established Church of Scotland. He objected to the Bill altogether, but would certainly vote against the Amendment.
 MR. ERNEST NOEL  thought that the Amendment would have the effect of rendering the Established Church more national than it was at present. He held that an Established Church kept up for a minority of the people was an established injustice. The people of Scotland were at that moment still Presbyterians.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the Amendment was inconsistent with the principle of the Bill. The measure was intended to abolish patronage in the Established Church of Scotland; but that Amendment would set up a system of external patronage in that Church in its worst form. The hon. Member for Fife could hardly be in earnest in proposing that all the Protestant Bodies in Scotland should elect the ministers of the Church of Scotland. The different Presbyterian Bodies were not on such terms of friendship as would make them act together cordially in the election of ministers, although he trusted the time would come when they would do so. But if anything more than another could tend to retard that result, it would be anything like au attempt to force a mode of electing their ministers on the Scotch people. The nearer allied sects were to each other, the greater often was their hostility, just as the quarrels between brothers were the bitterest. By trying to force the Presbyterian Churches to come together by pressure from without, Parliament was likely to do more harm than good.
 MR. J. S. HARDY  objected to the term seatholders, on the general ground that it would include the rich and might exclude the poor. His object in supporting the Bill was, that he thought it would pave the way to a general reconciliation.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, it appeared to him that in a national Church, maintained with national funds, every in-habitant of a parish had something to do with the election of a minister, and should accordingly have a voice in the matter. However he did not wish to multiply divisions, and he would there-fore withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. ANDERSON , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 2, after "vested in" to insert "the ratepayers of the parish along with," said, he hoped he should not be considered hostile to the Bill in taking that course. As it at present stood, it appeared to him to be of a very sectarian character, and the object of his Amendment was to make it as broad as possible. The Bill was not to abolish patronage, but to transfer it
 692
 MR. ANDERSON  remarked that the clause as it stood was an enacting clause. The proposition of the hon. Member for Dumbarton would make it merely a declaratory clause.
 MR. ANDERSON  moved, as an Amendment in page 2, line 17, to leave out from "and the courts" to "thereof," in line 22, inclusive. The object was to deprive the Church Courts of the power of finally settling all questions connected with and arising out of the appointment of any minister thereof.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that as under the Bill as it now stood, there would be no appeals if civil right should be interfered with, he must take the sense of the Committee upon his proposal. He considered that the effect of the clause would be to set up a sacerdotal usurpation.
 MR. ANDERSON  wondered how long Government was going to continue introducing new Bills that Session. Within the last two days hon. Members would have received two new Bills, one of which appeared to be the first step in overturning the Army legislation of last Parliament, just the same as the Endowed Schools Bill did the legislation passed by the late Government in respect to endowed schools. The other Bill, called the Great Seals Bill, was one the only purpose of which was apparently to abolish certain offices, and give unnamed and unlimited compensation to the officers, and to appoint other people in their places with unnamed and unlimited salaries. He appealed to the Government to withdraw these Bills, as they had been introduced at a period of the Session when the country could not possibly make itself thoroughly acquainted with their proposals.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, the tramways had been approved of by the local authorities, and a Committee of Parliament, and on those grounds he should oppose the Amendment.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  thought the whole blame should not be thrown on draftsmen. These clauses, if he was not mistaken, must have been drawn to order.
 MR. TREVELYAN  protested against the exemption of national property from the influence of the Civil Courts.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he rose for a practical object. An important measure had been introduced—the India Councils Bill—with regard to which he had given Notice of Motion. He would like to know when that Bill would be proceeded with, as it had not been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister. Then, they were promised that the Indian Budget would be brought forward earlier this year. At present, it seemed as though it would be much later than in any former year. He asked when they might expect it to be introduced?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he thought the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) had been rather hard upon Her Majesty's Government, when he attacked the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government for saying that he did not intend to proceed any further this Session with those clauses of the Bill which he did not understand. In his (Mr. Childers') opinion, nothing could have been more conclusive than such a reason when given by the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman had coupled his statement with a very important and detailed statement as to the remaining Business of the House; and while he (Mr. Childers) was listening to the right hon. Gentleman, it occurred to him to see what were the promises contained in Her Majesty's Speech at the beginning of the Session, and to compare the promises with their fulfilment. In the Royal Speech six measures were promised. First of all, there was to be a Bill, or rather a series of Bills, connected with the transfer of land in England and dealing with real property. Those measures had been abandoned. Next, there was promised a rearrangement of the system of judicature, which, having been effected for England last Session, was to be extended to Ireland. Well, that measure had also been abandoned. The third measure—the proposed Judicature Bill for Scotland—had also been abandoned. The fourth measure promised in the Speech from the Throne, was the appointment of a Royal Commission to deal with questions affecting the relations between master and servant, and the House was informed that the appointment of that Commission would be followed by legislation during the pre-
 635
 MR. J. W. BARCLAY : I rise to support the Amendment of my hon. Friend the Member for Dundee. I do so, because it appears to me that the proposals of the Bill are most ungenerous and unjust to the non-Established Churches in Scotland, and I crave the indulgence of the House while I endeavour as briefly as possible to state my reasons for saying so. I quite agree with my hon. Friend in thinking that the historical aspect of patronage does not help us much in the consideration of this question, because, however interesting it may be to know the law and practice of 150 years ago, they can scarcely be of service in guiding us to a conclusion now, when circumstances are so entirely different. Neither do I think it of very great importance what was the precise attitude of the Free Church in 1843, because the Free Church as well as the Established Church of Scotland have of necessity progressed with the public mind, and are not now what they were in 1843. The real question is—what is the relation between the different religious parties in Scotland, and what will be the effect of the Bill on the public mind in Scotland in the present day? Now, there was no doubt a time when this measure would have been cordially accepted by the Liberal party in the Church of Scotland, and that it would have prevented the great Disruption which took place in 1843. But many things have happened since then. The ministers of the Free Church have had 30 years' experience of practical Voluntaryism, and the controversy which has been going on more or less since has carried the public mind far beyond patronage, which few now defend; and the great Church question of the day is
 664 665 666 667 668 The Aberdeen Journal "The Presbytery of Strathbogie meet to-day at Huntly, for the purpose of receiving the presentation in favour of the Rev. Mr. Duguid to
 669 The Aberdeen Herald "The Sheriff, Procurator Fiscal, and Superintendent of Police were at Keith, but no op-position was offered to the Presbytery. As a preliminary measure, as well as to show that Government are determined to support the Strathbogie clergyman deposed by the Assembly, a detachment of the 71st Highlanders is stationed at Huntly, whore they remain till further orders." 670
 MR. LEITH : It appears to me that this Amendment is to declare what the law of Scotland is in regard to the power vested in the communicants and other members of the congregation. The hon. Member desires not that we should give the power, but to declare that it now exists in the Church of Scotland.
 MR. LEITH , in moving as an Amendment, in page 2, lines 3 and 4, after "respectively," to insert "and also in the inhabitants generally of the said parishes, being ratepayers and members of any of the congregations of Protestant Churches in Scotland," said his Amendment differed in form, but was identical in principle with the Amendment of the hon. Member for Fife just withdrawn. In conjunction with the proposition, he desired to embody the condition that the selection of ministers should be extended to licentiates or ministers of any of the Presbyterian Churches of Scotland.
 MR. RAMSAY  entered a protest on the part of the other Protestant Churches of Scotland against their having that duty of electing ministers of the Established Church thrust upon them. He was sure that it would be anything but satisfactory to them if the Amendment were carried.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, if he were a Churchman he should certainly object to the transfer of the power of electing the minister to a new body not known in Scotland. In Scotland the communicants were regarded as the only congregation. They looked to no Act of Parliament to confer on them that right; but they looked to the charter which was conferred on them by the Founder of Christianity Himself.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, he did not wish to obstruct the progress of the Bill, but there were some points in the debate which should not be passed over without observation. The hon. Member for Dumbartonshire (Mr. Orr Ewing) spoke comparatively of the efforts made by the Free Church and the Established Church to raise funds for promoting religious objects, and he said that the efforts of the latter were especially beneficial to the poor, though less in amount, in consequence of seat-rents being charged in the Free Church and not in the Established. The hon. Member said he was well acquainted with the Highlands, and that he knew those regions well; but he (Mr. Ramsay) challenged him to produce any Free Church case in which seat-rents were levied in the Highlands. The hon. Member could adduce no such case. In largo towns, no doubt it was the custom; but it was equally the custom in the Established Church. Seats allotted free to the poor were as usual in the Free Church as in the Established. That, he would remind the House, was not a Bill for the abolition of patronage—that could not be said of it in the true sense of the word. The Bill transferred the right of electing ministers from those who were at present vested in that right, to a new electoral body, to be created by the law. The people of Scotland had always recognized the right of communicants to elect their own ministers, and that, too, whether they belonged to the Dissenting or to the Established Church; but the Bill admitted also such adherents as the kirk-session for the purposes of the Bill should determine to be members of the congregation. That was a new, vague, and hitherto wholly unknown policy, either in the Dissenting, or in the Established Church. They had been told frequently that that was a Bill with which those who were not members of the Established Church had nothing to do. He could understand that, if it absolved all but members of the Established Church from payments towards expenses of the Establishment. He had,
 678
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  considered it of great importance to retain the Preamble as a guide to those who would have to enforce the Act. Its terms were often appealed to, and if struck out, he should cease to support the Bill.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  understood that notwithstanding the omission of the clauses referred to, the Bill did more than merely transfer the powers of the Endowed Schools Commissioners to the Charity Commissioners, and the latter were intended to carry out the original Acts in a different spirit from that which had influenced the Endowed Schools Commissioners. ["No, no!"] If not the passing of this Bill would be a farce.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  said, it was quite customary, at that period of the Session, whatever Government was in office, for the occupants of the front Opposition bench to show that the programme of the Government had not been carried out. It had been, no doubt, a great mistake on the part of the Government to promise so much. It must not be supposed that the sentiments expressed by the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) were not shared by others. There was regret and disappointment among many supporters of the Government, at the statement which had just been made in reference to the Endowed Schools Bill; and there was a large body outside the House whose views were not easily heard, and whose passions were not easily excited, which felt very strongly on this question. The subject had been under discussion in the House and by its Committees for six years. A Committee sat in 1869 and another in 1873, and on both Committees the policy of the abandoned clauses was supported by the Conservative Members. Therefore, that was no idiosyncrasy of a few Members of the Conservative party. It was the true Conservative policy, which was adopted and
 639
 MR. WHITWELL  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Salt) had a new clause upon the Paper relating to county school committees. In his absence, he (Mr. Whitwell) would simply formally move the clause, in order to afford the Government an opportunity of expressing its opinion upon the point.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  suggested that after the former division which had pronounced the sense of the House in such a marked manner, it would be scarcely fair in the hon. Member for Dundee to divide the House on going into Committee.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  suggested that it would be better to withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said, if the suggestion was adopted, he hoped the division would be taken, not on the substitution of seatholders for communicants, but on the addition of seatholders to communicants. It had always been the custom in the Church of Scotland to acknowledge the heritors; and by letting them into the Bill, they would not only restore the language of the old Acts, but make it more difficult to admit the Free Church again within its pale.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said, in that case, he should move that the definition include seatholders.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  denied that the word "Church" would represent the true state of the case, because the Act of 1690 gave the election to heritors and elders. Now, they admitted the heritors here; but beyond that, it would be an unfair proceeding to shut out the Committee from discussing the Amendment by inserting a few words which nobody understood the meaning of.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  thought the hon. Gentleman would do well to withdraw his Amendment. The proposal was obviously an unpopular one at the present moment; but whilst he acknowledged that, he must say that it was not so monstrous as had been endeavoured to be made out by some hon. Members. He knew of churches in which it prevailed, and had not failed to provide them with a succession of excellent clergymen.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  hoped the Amendment would be withdrawn.
 MR. MARK STEWART  said, the Motion of the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Anderson) at first sight was very taking; but a little consideration showed that it would be ridiculous to entertain it for a single moment, and not only that, but the other Amendments to which the hon. Member referred. If ratepayers were allowed to have a direct voice in the election of clergymen, every one who had any knowledge of Scotland knew that there would be nothing but confusion and turmoil in such elections. Besides, it was a proposition that no other religious or irreligious community would submit to. What would the Roman Catholics say, if Protestants were to get the legal right to appoint the clergymen of their churches; and what would the other Presbyterian denominations say if members of the Established Church were to claim the right to elect the ministers of their Church? This was a question which referred to the Established Church of Scotland only, and though she would be willing to take in any other Church, or any other persons who would come into her fold, it
 693
 MR. M'LAGAN  approved of the Amendment, thinking that the seat-holders were the most proper persons in whom the power given by the clause could be vested. He trusted, however, that the hon. Member for the University of Edinburgh and the hon. Member for Lanarkshire would come to an agreement upon the question under discussion.
 MR. REID  wished for a more precise definition of the term "seatholder," so as to limit it to regular attendants. At present, therefore, he could not support the Amendment.
 MR. VANS AGNEW , who had an Amendment on the Paper, to insert in line 2, after "vested in," "a committee consisting as to one-third of its number of heritors being Protestants, and as to the remaining two-thirds of," said, he would withdraw it, having been informed that it would place the patronage in the
 697
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  wished to speak of the present Commissioners in the spirit of the maxim— De mortuis nil nisi bonum 649
 MR. EARP  asked, whether it was proposed to consult borough authorities with regard to schemes affecting their interests?
 MR. EARP , in moving the following clause:—
 (Elective governing bodies and local trustees to frame schemes.) "When the governing body of an endowed school, or trustees of a charity making provision for an endowed school, are an elective body, they may, as provided by the Endowed Schools Acts, prepare and submit to the Charity Commissioners in writing a scheme relating to such endowment; and any scheme so prepared by a governing body of an endowed school, or trustees of a charity making provision for an endowed school, and submitted to the Charity Commissioners, shall, if approved by them, be adopted and proceeded with by them in the same manner as if it were a scheme prepared by themselves, subject to the following conditions—namely:—
 
 "( a. "( b.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  urged that in future, Bills should be so drafted that the time of the House need not be occupied in discussing the meaning of clauses.
 MR. WATKIN WILLIAMS  asked, whether the Government intended to bring in a Bill that Session to postpone the operation of the Judicature Act beyond Michaelmas next?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that when the noble Lord the Postmaster General attributed the non-fulfilment of the programme of the Queen's Speech to the length of the ecclesiastical debates, it must be remembered that the Church Patronage Bill occupied only two nights, and the Public Worship Regulation Bill two more nights. That could not, in his (Mr. Forster's) opinion, be any satisfactory explanation as to the barrenness of the Session. With regard to the Endowed Schools Bill, if he, and his Colleagues, or the Government had made that endeavour to understand the Bill which the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government said he had at last been obliged to give, they would not have been surprised, but rather would have expected lengthy debates; and if they had attempted to comprehend the principles involved in the amending part of the Bill, they either must have been ignorant of the feelings of a large proportion of the House, or they must have expected great opposition. Two or three days ago he asked the Prime Minister when the names of the new Commissioners could be given, and the right hon. Gentleman said it was difficult to make the appointments. He did not wonder at the difficulty; but when the Act of 1869 was passed, the Government was repeatedly and justly pressed for the names of the Commissioners, and they were given before the Bill left the House. He trusted that in this instance, the names would be given by the time the Bill reached the stage of the Report. As the Bill was reduced to one for ap-
 637
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  suspected that in this instance the draftsman was not to blame, and that, as had already been suggested, the clauses in question had been drawn to order. He thought that too much had been said about the difficulty of understanding the 4th clause For his own part, he could only say that he understood it too well. He trusted that on the Report the noble Lord would be able to answer a question that had formerly been put, with respect to the names of the additional Commissioners.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would adopt that course.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  retracted the word insinuation, saying that the part of the Preamble he wished to strike out would be a positive charge against the Commissioners.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he was glad that the hon. Member had elicited these remarks from the noble Lord, as it was desirable that the Charity Commissioners should endeavour to obtain the opinion of influential local parties in the same way as the Endowed Schools Commissioners had been doing. He thought, however, the better way to carry out the object in view would be not to formulate by actual clauses the method in which the committees were to act.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  held that this portion of the Preamble would convey an insinuation that the Endowed Schools Commissioners did not care for religious education, which was not the fact.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  moved, as an Amendment, to omit the following words relating to the amending clauses which had been dropped:—
 "Whereas it is expedient to make further provision for carrying into effect the objects of the Endowed Schools Acts, 1869 and 1873 (in this Act referred to as the Endowed Schools Acts) and for better promoting the main designs of the founders of endowed schools in respect of a liberal education, and of such part of that education as relates to religious instruction."
 MR. FORSYTH  said, that hon. Members on the Opposition benches were always so much in unity amongst themselves—they never quarrelled, nor had any differences of opinion, oh, no!—that they were greatly surprised that the hon. Members for Cambridge University and for West Kent should be strongly opposed to the hon. Member for Londonderry. He was not going into those differences, nor would he say with which opinions he agreed—it would be time enough next year. He did not at all understand the Prime Minister to have pledged himself to bring in the identical clauses which were now withdrawn, either as regarded letter or substance. The right hon. Gentleman had taken a most judicious course in withdrawing them, especially as he had said he did not find it easy to understand them. In that he (Mr. Forsyth) agreed with him. He had taken great pains to understand the
 644
 MR. HEYGATE  recommended that the words should be retained.
 MR. W. HOLMS  asked the Postmaster General, If in the Contract of July 1874 he has arranged to allow the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company to run their steamers with the heavy portion of the Indian Mails through the Suez Canal; and, if so, to what extent the transmission of such portion of the Indian Mails will be retarded; what deduction from the subsidy of £449,000 per annum is to be made on account of the permission thus granted; and, is he aware that his two predecessors in office recommended that a considerable deduction from that amount should be made in that contingency?
 COLONEL MURE  said, he must oppose the Amendment, but not on the same grounds as the last speaker, and certainly not on the ground that no sensible man would propose such an Amendment. His motive was his utter objection to a ratepaying constituency as being unsuitable. The great object he had in view in supporting the Bill was to try to conciliate other Churches; and if anything was eminently calculated to have the very reverse effect, it would be the introduction of a ratepaying constituency. He desired to make the body entrusted with that power as ecclesiastical as possible.
 COLONEL MURE  thought that all fighting in the Church Courts should be put an end to, and therefore supported the Amendment.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  wished to know whether the new Rules would be laid upon the Table this Session?
 MR. DALRYMPLE  said, the objection to seatholders was, that it would include heads of families and exclude the
 698
 MR. CHARLES LEWIS  said, that as neither the hon. Member for Preston (Mr. Hermon), nor the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder had risen, he should not be justified in allowing the speech of the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) to pass unnoticed. From what had been said, it appeared that the Prime Minister was supposed to be pledged to re-introduce next Session clauses similar to Clauses 4, 5, and 6. For himself, he did not so understand the Prime Minister to give any such definite pledge; and he would say, further, nothing would contribute so much to the mortification and surprise of many hon. Members on that side of the House, as to find that the Prime Minister considered himself to be under that pledge. He did not last night venture to rise, until he found it was absolutely necessary that some of those who felt strongly on this subject should let the Government know the feeling which prevailed among many of their supporters. He felt bound to say for himself and others that they recognized the courtesy, consideration and fairness with which the Government had treated them in this matter. The strength of a chain was no greater than its weakest link, and some of those who sat next him, with whom he associated himself, happened to be the weak links in the Government chain on this subject; and it was considered rather a strain upon their party fidelity, to expect them to go into the Lobby in support of a clause which was said to be inexplicable. The Government might well have supposed, having regard to the majority they had on the 1st clause, that they might rely upon the same majority to help them in passing the rest of the Bill. Recalling the circumstances of the long agitation on the subject of Church rates, however anxious he might be to support the Government, he was not prepared to join in what he believed would be the initiation of another sectarian agitation in the country, which might lead to the injury of the Church, and must assuredly prejudicially affect the interests of the Government and of the party to which he belonged. Many of
 638
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR , in moving as an Amendment, in page 1, line 28, after "repealed," leave out to "thereanent," in page 2, line 12, and insert—
 "And considering that patronage and presentation to kirks is an evil prejudicial to the liberty of the people and planting of kirks, and unto the free calling and entry of ministers into then-charge, discharge for ever hereafter all patronages and presentations to kirks, whether belonging to Her Majesty or any lay patrons, presby-
 685 686 687
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  contended that the Act of 1690 did not make the Church of Scotland free. It certainly gave the heritors and elders influence over other electors, and that was what had been complained of. At the same time, he did not think the House of Commons should dictate to the people of Scotland as to how they should elect their ministers.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  thought the simplest process to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion would be to repeal the Act of Queen Anne.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, in that case, he would propose the latter part of his Amendment, to leave
 688 "It is hereby provided that, pending the consultations of the general assembly in communication with the various kirk sessions, presbyteries, and provincial synods of the presbyterian churches, in settling the rule for naming, proposing, electing, and appointing ministers to churches and parishes in Scotland, the whole of the presentations hitherto vested in Her Majesty and others shall be vested in the Lord High Commissioner to the general assembly, who shall exercise this right to present to vacancies, subject to the feelings and wishes of the congregation."
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  supported the Motion, and asked that the House should be made acquainted as early as possible with the relative proportions of cost to be borne by the Indian and Home Governments.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, he must also recommend the hon. Baronet not to press the Motion, though it was only fair to him to say that he was not in the House when the Prime Minister made his appeal. It was from that circumstance that the hon. Baronet was not aware that other hon. Gentlemen had withdrawn their Motions. But there was this difference between this Motion and the others which stood on the Paper, that this Motion was not likely to give rise to a long discussion as the others might have done. He thought, however, his hon. Friend might be very well contented with having called attention to the matter. For his own part, he regretted that the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Berkshire (Colonel Loyd-Lindsay) was not present, because after what that hon. and gallant Member stated last year, he (Mr. Campbell-Bannerman) was surprised that his hon. Friend (Sir John Lubbock) should be under the necessity of bringing the subject again before the House; for it was stated last year, that if certain expressions should be withdrawn on the part of the Volunteers, the Artillery Company would be willing to grant the use of the ground. Then, why had not that arrangement been kept? He thought that the Government might well be called upon to give some assistance in the matter, it appearing to be a reasonable request on the part of the Volunteers.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN : What is the effect of the Amendment?
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, that if the Amendment referred to the state of things previous to the passing of the Act of Queen Anne, it effectually stopped all the Amendments of which Notice had been given by his hon. Friends around him, with reference to the constitution of the elective body.
 MR. CAMPBELL BANNERMAN  would vote in favour of the Amendment. He thought it dangerous to allow the Church Courts such supreme power as was given by the Bill.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, he failed to discover that there was any virtue in a ratepayer, which entitled him to vote for the election of a minister. However much he desired to liberalize the electoral body, he could not see that it was possible to widen its basis; and he was disposed to agree with the Government that the best thing they could do was to leave the choice of the minister to those who were person-ally and directly interested in him, and who were to have the benefit of his ministrations.
 MR. CAMPBELL BANNERMAN  said, he was also of opinion that the Amendment was impolitic and objectionable. It would not effect the object for which it was designed—the bringing back of the Nonconformists to the Establishment. He objected to it as an attempt to set up a sort of secondary Established Church in Scotland, over which the State would have no control. He also wished to know how Protestant Churches were to be defined, and where the line was to be drawn.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT , who had given Notice of a Motion in favour of a clasp, as well as a medal, for service south of the Prah, said, that after the appeal made by the Prime Minister, and having regard to the state of Public Business, he should postpone his Motion.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, having regard to the often-expressed wishes of the people of Ireland, Her Majesty's Government would consider the expediency of establishing a Royal Residence there, with suitable provision for its maintenance, for the purpose of encouraging occasional visits of members of the Royal Family to that portion of the United Kingdom?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said that the parish church in Scotland was open to every person in the parish, whereas the Dissenting church was only open to subscribers
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  said, that he had not been requested to postpone his Motion. It was unreasonable of Her Majesty's Government to complain of hon. Members for bringing forward Motions which had been on the Paper for weeks, and which they had not been even asked to defer.
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK , in rising to move—
 "That it is expedient that Her Majesty's Government should take such steps as they may deem necessary to obtain for the City of London Volunteers the use of the Artillery Ground in Finsbury, at such times as it is not required Try the Honourable Artillery Company or the City of London Militia," 681 682
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  said, many Members on the Opposition side of the House would concur with the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope), in the hope that Her Majesty's Government would raise the question again next year. If the question was thoroughly discussed, the inevitable result would be to apply to our endowed schools the principles which had been already applied to the Universities, and to sweep away once and for all the restrictions imposed by the Act of 1869.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that his attention had for a considerable time been directed to the general position of the Telegraph Service, a subject of very great importance, involving an expenditure of great magnitude, and requiring very careful control and supervision. All expenditure upon new works or extensions out of capital had been stopped since October last, and no new works or extensions could now be undertaken except out of sums voted by Parliament. The Treasury exercised the same care
 623
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must appeal to the hon. Baronet not to press the Motion. He did not know whether the hon. Baronet was present that afternoon when the Prime Minister made an appeal to hon. Gentlemen who had Notices on the Paper to waive them, with a view to enable the House to go on with the Committee on the Church Patronage (Scotland) Bill; but as those Gentlemen had complied with the request, he hoped the hon. Baronet would do so likewise. The hon. Baronet's Notice stood fourth on the list, and if those hon. Gentlemen who had precedence of the hon. Baronet had not been disposed to waive their right, the Motion could not have been brought forward, at all events, until a late period. His right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War, in whose Department this matter lay, did not conceive it probable that he would have been expected to be here to give an answer to the question. Under those circumstances, he appealed to the hon. Baronet, whether it would be fair to the House, or to those hon. Members who had waived their rights, to proceed further with the discussion of this Motion? He would, however, at once admit that he was not prepared to enter into the merits of the case, beyond saying that it was in substance, if not in words, precisely the same as that which had been brought forward last year; it was a question between two private rights, and not one in which the policy of Her Majesty's Government was concerned. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Baronet
 683
 SIR THOMAS CHAMBERS  said, that although the question he had placed upon the Paper was one in which many hon. Members took the greatest possible interest, he could not resist the appeal of the Government, and he should therefore withdraw his Motion in favour of the Church Patronage (Scotland) Bill.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he was anxious to give the reasons why he could not support the Motion of his hon. Friend. He did not pretend to be an enthusiastic supporter of the Bill; indeed, he felt that the Government had entered into a course of action which might be productive of danger and difficulty. In this case, everything depended on the shape which might be given to the Bill in Committee, whether it would prove merely an instrument of discord or a change for good. He was therefore anxious for the Bill to go into Committee, in order that it might receive the shape which would make it beneficial. He believed that, with certain Amendments, it was a measure which would be beneficial to the Church of Scotland by adding to its members, and that it might give it a better selection of ministers, and a better administration so far as regarded the poor. He did not think that an object to be deprecated. He did not see any reason why that legislation should be vetoed. On these grounds he supported the measure brought forward by Her Majesty's Government, and he trusted that the hon. Member for Dundee would be satisfied with the discussion he had raised, and allow the House to go into Committee on the Bill.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 2, to leave out "the communicants," and insert "the seatholders," said that the only point in which his Amendment differed from that of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Edinburgh was this—that it created what he thought was a very proper restriction of the operation of the clause to the heads of families.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  asked those who recognized the congregation as having rights, who were the congregation? For his own part he considered the seatowners constituted the congregation, independently of the sacramental test. Unless Her Majesty's Government could lay down some satisfactory test, he would rather take the Amendment of his hon. Friend, than have the matter decided by a purely ecclesiastical tribunal. He did so for this reason—in appointing a minister of a congregation they were not only dealing with an ecclesiastical matter, but they were raising a person to a considerable social position, and one which gave him considerable civil influence in his parish,
 696
 VISCOUNT SANDON  agreed in the feeling of the hon. Member, but thought it hardly fair to squeeze in an opinion in the Preamble, after the alterations which had been made in the Bill.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  replied that he would be the last person to pass over the claims of the great town populations, with which he was so closely connected.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  begged to say, in reply to his hon. Friend, that the Government considered that the object which he had in view would be sufficiently met by the Bill as it stood, as the Education Department had power under the measure to consult the feeling of local bodies. It was the earnest desire
 648
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he wished to draw the attention of Mr. Speaker to the Standing Order of the House, which says that the House at its rising on Friday shall stand adjourned to the following Monday, unless the House shall otherwise order, and asked whether, that being so, the present sitting was regular?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, although his hon. and learned Friend had given him private Notice that he was about to put a Question to him on the subject which he had just mentioned, yet that Notice had reached him only a few minutes before he entered the House. He might add that his hon. and learned Friend was aware that it did not rest with the Attorney General to regulate the Business of the House, and to say what Bills should be proceeded with and what Bills stopped. He certainly understood that what was stated by the Prime Minister yesterday was the result of deliberate consideration—namely, that those Bills should not be proceeded with.
 708
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he should not detain the House long, as it was perfectly true, as had just been stated, that there was a great deal of business that everybody present was anxious to get through; nor would it be of any use to raise a prolonged debate, on the subject, at this period of the Session. The hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) knew that that was a matter that had been brought under his (Mr. Cross's) attention, and to which he had already devoted a good deal of time. He was quite aware that the state of the roads in Scotland at the present moment was not satisfactory, and there was no doubt that there was a strong desire that something should be done. That was evident from the fact that so many counties had already made arrangements by means of private Bills for the purpose of effecting the object which the hon. Member for Edinburgh had in view. But the House must remember that there was a great difference between English and Scotch roads, and that each must be dealt with on different principles. When a road trust expired in England, there was a body ready to take care of the roads handed over to them; but in Scotland, it was quite different, because there, when a trust expired, they had to create a body who were to bear the expenses, and hence arose the great difficulty with regard to Scotland in the way of coming to an equitable arrangement. No one knew better than the hon. Member for Edinburgh that in certain counties in Scotland, and particularly in Lanarkshire and Renfrew-shire, there were very considerable difficulties in making arrangements in this matter; but with regard to the whole business, he thought it was understood by the deputation who had waited on him, that the matter was one that would receive his most careful attention during the Recess. In the course of the business then before Parliament, it was impossible to discuss the subject as it ought to be discussed; but he might say at that juncture, that in any proposal he should make to the House, by way of submitting
 713
 MR. SULLIVAN  in moving the Adjournment of the House said he did so, because it was evident from the attendance that day, that many hon. Members were mentally and physically wearied out, after a long and arduous week's labour. It was hardly fair to bring over-worked and exhausted Members who had been sitting nearly every day that week till 3
 714
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he must repudiate the charge, that hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House were in the habit of rushing up from the smoking-room and giving the Government a senseless support, without having listened to the debate upon the matter under discussion. For his own part, he never went into any portion of the House where hon. Members were accustomed to obtain refreshment for mind and body, that he did not find it occupied by a very much larger contingent of the Followers of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick than of any other party in the House.
 THE CHANCELLOK OF THE EXCHE-QUEK  said, he thought the discussion which had been raised by the hon. and gallant Gentleman was divisible into two parts—the first, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months, a Motion which involved the question, whether they were to continue all the Acts which were now about to expire. That was a question which, he was bound to say, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had argued with great ability. The second part of the hon. and gallant Gentleman's argument was his objection to the "Continuance" part of this Bill; and the hon. and gallant Gentleman, he was bound to say, had argued very logically on that question. He had raised questions which it was not necessary for him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to enter into now; but it was obvious that there might be other Bills in the Schedule which other hon. Members might wish to discuss, and he must remind the House that to all the objections, one general answer would have to be given. That course was formerly pursued when discussions on very diverse topics were raised on the Motion that the House adjourn from Friday to Monday, the Minister replying late in the evening to all these matters together. But if they were to consider such very different measures as were comprised in the Bill upon the second reading, when hon. Members were limited to one speech each, great inconvenience must be felt, and such an inconvenience might result on questions of the kind now before the House. He, however, quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member that care ought to be taken that measures should not be introduced unnecessarily by a Bill of the kind, which must lead to a discussion of various subjects. On the other hand, there was no doubt that it was a very convenient practice—one which saved the time of Parliament—to include in a single Bill, instead of in separate Bills, several Acts which it was desirable to continue, and which had been passed as temporary Acts. For example, the Bill now before the House, which the hon. and gallant Member had called an Omnibus Bill, embraced several subjects for legislation. It was possible, however they might I find that that system was carried rather too far, and that point he undertook to say should receive careful consideration.
 726 727
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, that after listening to the debate, he was unable to conceive what any well-disposed man in Ireland had to complain of. The only persons in Ireland who had any reason to be afraid of the law were those who were anxious to break it. There was in existence a law in Belfast, under which he, for walking into Belfast and saying he was a Protestant, might be fined forty shillings and costs, and an hon. Gentleman opposite, for saying anything about the Pope or King "William, might be mulcted in a similar fine. That was a local law passed for the purpose of preventing party riots, and he was not aware that any respectable inhabitant of Belfast had ever complained of the existence of that law, because experience had shown it to be a useful and salutary one. It was necessary sometimes to submit to harsh laws for the general good. If the condition of the country was such as to render the Bill unnecessary, it ought not to be carried; but the Government should be allowed to have the opportunity of ascertaining whether or not it was necessary.
 MR. SULLIVAN  also appealed to the hon. Member (Mr. O'Clery) not to press his Motion for the Adjournment of the Debate. He (Mr. Sullivan) confessed that he listened with deep regret and with some humiliation to the speech of the Member for Tyrone. It was one of the worst evils of subjection, that it dulled the moral susceptibilities, deadened that noble resistance against wrong, and produced amongst those who had been subjected to its deteriorating agencies, men who would protest that they loved their chains.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, the promise made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was in the most conciliatory manner, and not in any trafficking spirit; and let him remind the noble Lord the Postmaster General, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer added that he thought a Bill of that great importance should have a full opportunity to be considered. He (Mr. Sullivan) therefore hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give to Irish Members an assurance that a day would be given for the discussion of those Acts, and that they be not taken at "the Irish hour."
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would give his recollection of what had passed. Very early in the discussion, the Chancellor of the Exchequer undertook,
 745
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the Government had no wish to deprive Irish Members of a full opportunity of discussing any measure in which they felt an interest, and in the present instance they would afford every facility for discussing the measure in Committee. He wished to point out that if there had been a large attendance of hon. Members on the Conservative side of the House, it would have been said that there was an attempt made to overbear the Irish Members. He thought that hon. Gentlemen opposite were very favourably situated for going on with the next Order.
 MR. DISRAELI : I certainly consider that the offer on my part was not accepted. At the same time, so far as that offer was made from my own sense of propriety and justice, I should certainly be influenced by the same considerations
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it was not intended to go on that evening with the other Irish Business on the Paper.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he could assure hon. Members for Ireland that his absence from the debate up to that time was not due to any want of respect for them. They must be aware that he had a great deal to do besides sitting in that House. Although he had not been present, he had endeavoured to make himself acquainted with the general tone and gist of the debate, and he was not entirely ignorant of what had been said on either side. Now, he wished particularly at that period of the Session, to say that he always liked hon. Members to part, if possible, in tolerably good humour with one another, and he would be happy to make a suggestion which he thought would meet the case. He remembered very well the remarks of his Colleagues (Lord Salisbury and Lord Carnarvon) in the House of Lords, and he could not say that he disagreed with them. He was perfectly ready to say that those two Acts should no longer be
 737
 MR. FAY  contended that no necessity now existed for the continuance of these Acts. They had been grossly abused in their application, for with regard to the county he represented, and to which they had been applied (Cavan), the Judges of Assize had, year after year, described it as one of the most peaceful in Ireland, and the Chief Secretary must have been grossly misinformed when he insinuated that there was a necessity for their continuance.
 MR. MONK  said, that he, in common with many hon. Members had been taken by surprise, by that Saturday sitting. He therefore urged the postponement of the Bill till Monday, or some other convenient day, when those hon. Members who took an interest in it would have an opportunity of attending and getting a fair division, which clearly they could not get on a Saturday afternoon. The House could soon get through the rest of the Business on the Paper, and then adjourn.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  thought the opinions of Lord Salisbury and Lord Carnarvon, which had been quoted, were sufficient to prove that the opposition on the present occasion was not at all factious. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland had borne testimony to the peaceful state of Ireland. The jury had allowed £1,200 as damages in the case of the attempt to shoot Mr. Whitworth, and, in the event of his death, his widow would get that sum. The other case to which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had referred, and in which
 732
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he rose for the purpose of urging that hon. Gentlemen who represented Ireland should not press for another division. He voted with the minority in the last division, to show his sympathy with the case they had raised, and with the arguments they had adduced in support of the case. But, believing that if they pressed for another division, they would be in a still smaller minority, and would in no way serve their case, he could not for himself, by voting with them again, do anything which might be viewed as an attempt at obstructing the remaining business of the Session. As an impartial witness of the debate which had just taken place, he thought all the force of the arguments adduced had been on the side of the Irish Members, and if any hon. Gentleman should propose in Committee that the Acts in question should be deleted from the Bill, he should most cordially vote for the Motion. He did not, however, think it would be well to go to any more divisions, which would have only the effect of obstructing the business that had to be completed.
 MR. M'LAREN , in rising to move—
 "That the mode in which expired Turnpike Acts in Scotland have hitherto been dealt with, and which this Bill proposes to follow, is unjust in principle, and ought not to be continued," 709 710 711
 MR. SYNAN  said, he wished to echo all that had been said by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General, for Ireland with respect to the absence of crime in Ireland. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, however, either did not understand or did not answer the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Limerick, which was to postpone the further consideration of these expiring laws until next Session, by fixing a day on which they would expire; and then that a positive measure should be brought in for the renewal of such of them as might be considered necessary, so that Acts of such importance might not be smuggled through in a renewal Bill, where the great were mixed up with the small. Since the Government came into office, what measures had they taken to produce peace, order, and tranquillity in Ireland to justify the credit claimed for them by the right hon. and learned Gentleman? Yet the right hon. and learned Gentleman had admitted that the condition of Ireland now furnished a model of order; and the language of the Judges who were at
 730 post hoc, propter hoc
 MR. COLLINS  hoped the Motion for Adjournment would not be pressed, and that the Government would reconsider their decision.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that the Prime Minister had offered to drop the Coercion Acts out of the next expiring Bill; but if he would consent to go a step further, and strike them out of the Schedule of the present Bill, these Acts would expire at the end of next Session, and there could not be a doubt, even in the event of a Dissolution, but that there would be abundant time between the beginning and end of the Session to pass a special Act dealing with particular cases that might arise.
 MR. BRYAN  also appealed to the right hon. Gentleman to assent to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick. Its adoption would allow ample time for consideration. He felt sure that if the Prime Minister had been present before, as he was now, he would have acceded to that very reasonable proposal.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, there was nothing practical in dispute between the Government and Irish Members. The hon. and learned Member for Limerick was willing to insert words that these Acts should not expire till September, 1875. The actual words in the Bill were, till the end of the Session following July 1st, 1875; but those words were inserted merely to meet the contingency of a Dissolution. He would suggest that the Prime Minister should accept the proposal to renew the Acts till September, 1875, and then, if necessary, a Bill could be brought in for their continuance. By doing so, the Government would lose nothing, and would gain all they wished.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, he wished to put a Question to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General, of which he had given him private Notice. He (Sir Henry James) had learnt, with great surprise, that the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister, in his statement on the previous day, had announced the intention of the Government to allow the Judicature Bill to drop, and that statement was supplemented by a further announcement by the Attorney General, that he purposed introducing a Bill to postpone the period at which the Judicature Act of last Session was to come into operation. That statement had also taken the profession and the public by surprise, and in his (Sir Henry James's) opinion, the course thus indicated was likely to lead to a very unsatisfactory condition of affairs. The House would remember that it was now nearly 12 months ago since the Judicature Act of last Session passed. The time fixed for the coming into operation of the Act was the 2nd of November, 1874, a period which allowed some 16 or 17 months for the consideration and preparation of the several arrangements necessary for carrying it into effect. Not only the late and present Governments,
 706 707
 MR. BUTT  objected to Irish Business being discussed solely by Irish Members,
 715
 MR. BUTT  said, the proper time to bring in the Bills in question would be next Session, and he had met the objection that a Dissolution of Parliament might occur, by assenting to their continuance till October next year. He must still protest against the Bills being renewed for two years without discussion.
 MR. BUTT , in supporting the Motion, said he was disappointed at the reply of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. He had promised that these Acts should not be renewed again in a Continuance Bill; but though he fully accepted that pledge, it was not absolutely certain that two years hence the right hon. Gentleman would be Prime Minister. Not one single reason had been given for continuing this Bill beyond the end of next Session, when it expired. He was perfectly willing to let the Bill be renewed for a term certain, if it was understood that it could not be continued one hour beyond that time, unless upon full discussion.
 MR. BUTT  said, he must confess after the conciliatory speech made by the right hon. Baronet, that he felt exceedingly anxious to comply with the proposal. But just consider what the objects of that Continuance Bill and of Coercion and other Acts were, and that Irish Members had a high duty to discharge in opposing them, believing that they were not now necessary. He felt great difficulty in the matter in reference to these Continuance Bills. He might state to the House that it had taken him several hours to traverse through the Acts passed, and amongst them he found an Act for restraining the Orangemen of Ireland, and also Acts dealing with friendly and other societies in that country. That Act was renewed in 1844, again in 1845 for two years, and again in 1848, with coercive Amendments—one, enabling the police to go into a house in search of the signs and passwords of secret societies, and another, making the finding of such documents conclusive evidence of the guilt of the man in whoso possession they were found. He would tell the House another matter of importance. When the Friendly Societies Act was passed for Ireland, there was a clause in it placing the Foresters, the Odd Fellows, and similar associations on the same footing as the Freemasons, and allowing them the use of signs and passwords without the risk of incurring a penalty; but when that Coercion Act came to be renewed, the Friendly Societies Act was entirely forgotten, and it was renewed in its old form; so that the use of secret signs and passwords by those societies, again became a penal offence, and their members were liable to be transported or kept in penal servitude, for a period of seven years. Again, the case of the Peace Preservation Act was much stronger, but he did not wish to weary the House by going into detail upon the subject. He, therefore, hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give the House a pledge that the Acts in reference to Ireland included in the Bill would be postponed until next Session, and that they would be then introduced separately, so that an opportunity might be then given of considering them on their merits. The right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer said,
 728
 MR. BUTT  said, that without in any way disputing the accuracy of the right hon. Gentleman's recollection, they were bound to take a division on the question of the second reading of the Bill, as a protest against the measure; and, as far as he was concerned, considering the danger that might arise from the discussion of such a Bill, he must say that Bills of such great importance ought not to be taken at a late hour of the morning. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government would allow them that request; but if he should not, he (Mr. Butt) would now plainly tell the right hon. Gentleman that, although they were a small, they were a strong minority, and that they would most resolutely obstruct his measures.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, the usual mode of dealing with such Bills as those to which the hon. and learned Gentleman's remarks applied, was to provide that they should continue for a certain time, and from thence until the end of the then next Session of Parliament. That was done in order to avoid the danger of a sudden and premature Dissolution of Parliament. But the meaning and practical result was a renewal for one year. There never was, he might add, a Government who were better entitled to ask the House to assent to a Continuance Bill than the present, seeing how recently and how unexpectedly they had acceded to office. In consequence of that shortness of time, they had not been able to consider these Acts, in order to see how many of them they might abandon, and how many they should renew in distinct Bills. He might also observe on the general question, that the coercive measures for Ireland which had been passed in 1870 and 1871 were far more stringent than those it was now proposed to renew, and which had been
 729 Laughter.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (DR. BALL)  said, there were only two or three Bills embraced by the measure with regard to which any question arose. The proper course would be to read the Bill a second time, and there would be opportunity in Committee for moving the omission of particular Bills to which objection was taken.
 DR. BRADY  said, that in place of making the people of Ireland contented with the Government, these Acts had made them discontented, feeling, as they did, that they were placed in an inferior position to the people of this country.
 MR. J. MARTIN  said, he must express his astonishment that the Government did not offer an apology to the House, and to the world, for the unconstitutional course which they were taking in proposing to inflict coercive legislation
 736 dies non
 MR. J. MARTIN  appealed to the House to adjourn the debate, in order that a full opportunity might be afforded for the discussion of the various Acts contained in the Bill.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN , in moving that the Bill be read a second time that day three months, said, he regretted that the hon. Member who held the post of Financial Secretary of the Treasury had not informed them what was the object of the Bill. If, as was the case last night, they had before them a Bill for the continuation of a tramway a mile and a-half in length, they would have an elaborate introductory statement, and they would devote to it more time than they gave to the consideration of an Irish Bill needing the most important consideration. Here was a most important measure, what he might term an Omnibus Bill, comprising as it did with various others, measures affecting the constitutional rights of the Irish people, and yet the Secretary
 722 primâ facie 723 Laughter Laughter 724
 MR. BIGGAR , joined in the request of other Irish Members, that the Government would not persist in including these Acts in the present Bill. With regard to the county he represented (Cavan), the evidence of Dr. Conaty, Roman Catholic Bishop of Kilmore, in which diocese the greater part of Cavan was situated, went to show that the Chief Secretary for Ireland had been mistaken in supposing that the most rev. Prelate had assorted that secret societies existed in that county, or that its condition afforded any justification for its being proclaimed.
 MR. BIGGAR  seconded the Motion for Adjournment.
 MR. BIGGAR  hoped the Motion for adjourning the debate would be persisted in. Not a single argument had been adduced to sanction the continued enactment of any of the 34 statutes set out in the Schedule to the Bill, and he maintained that, in the absence of knowing anything more than their names, it was not fair to be asked to consent to their continuance. One of the Bills proposed to be renewed was the Grand Juries Bill, to which he had every objection, because in most cases that body acted in the most atrocious and corrupt manner. ["Order, order!"] He contended that he was perfectly in Order. Then came the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill, which was a most imperfect measure and required alteration, especially after some recent decisions of the Irish Judges. Then came the most objectionable of all, and that was the Peace Preservation Act, which was most offensive to the people of Ireland and injurious to the country. He thought they should be allowed to consider all these Bills separately, and for that reason supported the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. RONAYNE  protested against the continuance of the Acts, for however limited a period it might be. It was not correct to say that the Acts were not carried out. He knew many cases in which the operation of their provisions had caused great annoyance. Referring to the subject of arms, he said that after a gentleman of his acquaintance had been refused a licence to keep a gun, the applicant's father-in-law, who was
 741
 MR. O'CLERY  said: Sir, in rising to move the Adjournment of the Debate, I am impelled by an irresistible sense of duty to my country. To me, the spectacle this Assembly to-day presents is one, indeed, of deep humiliation. You are the guardians of popular rights under the Constitution, and yet, at the mere caprice of the Government, you tamely surrender your great privilege, and allow the civil rights of millions of my fellow-countrymen to be crushed without even a murmur of dissent. It cannot be disguised that the issue before this House to-day is none other than the virtual suspension of the liberties of the Irish people. It is impossible to conceal one's sense of surprise and indignation that a matter of such vital importance to the Irish nation should be so stealthily approached, and as stealthily hurried through, at an extraordinary and almost secret sitting of this Assembly. So grave an issue for our people should involve whole days of debate. Having heard the speeches from the Treasury benches—every sentence of which was directed against the Irish Representatives in tones of ill-concealed menace—I fail to perceive, from the arguments used, any
 739 740
 MR. M. BROOKS  also supported the adjournment.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government whether, considering the manner in which the House had been kept all that day, and that the House did not adjourn that morning until between 2 and 3 o'clock, the House ought not now to adjourn. He would therefore move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  explained that the hon. Member (Mr. Mitchell Henry) had referred not to the offer of the right hon. Gentleman, but to a promise made by the Chancellor of the' Exchequer at a part of the debate when the Prime Minister was not present.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, if he understood the right hon. Gentleman correctly, it was that by allowing the second reading of the Bill, the right hon. Gentleman, on the part of the Government, would not press any of those measures which they thought ought not to be continued.—[The CHAN-CELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No, no.]
 717
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, that they were not only asked to continue the Peace Preservation Act of 1873, but also the Act of 1847. The last-mentioned Act recited that "whereas in consequence of the prevalence of crime and outrage, it is necessary to make provision for the prevention thereof." At all events, there was no reason why the Act of 1847 should be continued, for he held that all the special powers which it was desired by a renewal of the Act in question to retain were given by the Peace Preservation Act of 1870, and that, therefore, the renewal would serve no practical purpose. To continue both Acts would be unduly to crowd the statute book with penal legislation. At the same time, he maintained that the
 731
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, he was sure the House was very tired of the debate, and heartily wished that they would go into Committee at once upon the Bill. But how could they be expected to do so, when they could only discuss the clauses, and could not deal with the merits of the Bill? In what way, he asked, could they bring the
 733 734 735
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, he should advise the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Sullivan) not to withdraw his Motion for Adjournment, even after the conciliatory words of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The only way of making the House aware of the strong feeling entertained by the Irish people as to the mode in which legislation on Irish subjects was conducted was, by making their power as a compact body felt, in the obstruction of measures such as the present, by every means that the Forms of the House would allow. To bring them there on a Saturday, in the hopes of having a grand field-day, in which they could get rid of inconvenient Bills, and vote clown the Irish Representatives by means of a well trained majority of Ministerial followers, was monstrous and indefensible. Before the Government complained of want of time, let them cease to bring in Bills dealing with Ireland at a late hour of the morning, without any information as to what the Bills were about. Within the last few days the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland had brought in a Bill, authorizing the sale of public property to private individuals, without having had any communication with the Representatives of the counties of Mayo and Galway, in which the property was situated, and had pushed on the Bill in spite of their remonstrances, so that it was impossible for them to ascertain the feeling of the people in the neighbourhood on the subject. He did not say that the objects contemplated in the Lough Corrib Canal Bill were not proper and desirable objects. He could give
 718 719 Laughter "Anyone who knows the way in which the purely Irish Business which is done is transacted, will scarcely regret that so much of it is left undone at the close of every Session. In the small hours of the morning a number of small Irish Bills are introduced. No statement is made of their objects, or their purpose, and they generally pass through their stages when the grey dawn of the morning is struggling with the Bude lights through the stained glass windows of the Commons' Hall. The appearance of those Bills is invariably preceded by a flight of a great number of the officials of those Boards which prey upon every Irish interest. These officials, however, like birds of ill-omen, hover round the Lobbies, or perch under the galleries, waiting anxiously for the small hours of the morning, when each of them watches over his little crotchet, or his little job. No vigilance of the most suspicious Irish Members can detect all the artifices which lie hid under all the Protean forms which these little Bills assume. If an Irish Member is content to wait in London to the very last night of the Session, and to wait each morning until the House breaks up, he is still powerless to defeat, or even to impede. The Bill is brought in at an unseemly hour, when no one remains in the House except those of the Ministers who have the strongest constitution, and their devoted adherents whom their whipper-in has influence enough to detain in the library, or smoking-room, to make a House." Irish Federation, 720 "The Bill under discussion was merely a means to enable Parliament and Ministers to cheat themselves, by smuggling Acts through quietly, against which there was very considerable objection. Thus Acts, which were merely allowed to pass on condition that they were only to be in operation for a year, were continued and re-continued without discussion until they became part of the permanent statutes of the land."—[3  Hansard, "That he complained of the practice which had grown up of passing this Bill hurriedly through Parliament at the very close of the Session, when there was no opportunity of giving it adequate consideration. Many of the Acts named in it were of the very gravest importance. Many of the Acts, when first introduced, were designed to be merely temporary, but they actually became permanent by being annually renewed through the medium of this Bill."—[ Ibid.,
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, he would bow at once to any intervention from the Chair, for he had no wish to be irregular, and would only observe, he thought it an excellent reason for adjournment to give Her Majesty's Government time to look into the matter, and see if his statement was not correct. If matters had been let alone, the Coercion Acts would have expired at the end of next Session of Parliament; but by including them in the present Continuance Bill, they would be kept alive for two years longer. Let the Government postpone the consideration of the Acts which did not expire that year; and then the Irish party, which had shown itself to be the true constitutional party, in favour of the maintainment of the proper Constitution of their own country, would give no opposition to the removal of Acts which did expire, although they thoroughly disapproved of
 721
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  claimed the fulfilment of the promise given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer—a promise in which Irish Members had the greatest confidence—that a day would be given specially for the discussion and consideration of the Bill, and they now hoped that promise would be kept by the Government.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  thought the debate should be adjourned, because hon. Members evidently did not under-stand the situation. The House was entitled to know from the Government, and especially from the Attorney General for Ireland, on what grounds the renewal of these Acts for two years was asked.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he traced the real difficulties under which Ireland laboured, and the real difficulties incident to legislation for Ireland, to the existence of personal government, the unfavourable influence of which was often recognized in that House in the discussion of questions relating to foreign affairs. For instance, the inhabitants of the county which he represented had been put under strict proclamation, not for any breach of law, but because their county happened to be coterminous with another county in which certain outrages had occurred. Was it not natural that the people in the county he represented should say—"What is the good of observing the law when we are treated in this way?" The reason why the Government had taken their present course with regard to these Acts was merely to save themselves from the little trouble of bringing forward a Bill next Session on the subject. In his opinion the Government should meet the real facts of the case, and he called upon them to give to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick the attention which it demanded, and which, in his opinion, it would be the highest policy to give to it. If next year it could be shown that Ireland could only be ruled by repressive measures, the subject ought then to be fully considered.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, the clerks in question were employed by the registrars of the Courts. They were appointed by them and were removable by them, and were not, in fact, servants of the Government in any way or shape. They could not, therefore, be superannuated without further legislation, as they did not come under the operation of the Act; neither did their employers, the registrars.
 MR. REDMOND  said, he could not understand the reluctance of the Government to make the slight concession asked of them, especially when Irish Members were asked to make greater concessions. The Government had all the Recess to consider whether they should renew that Act again; but now the House was asked to renew the Bill for twelve months after next September. At a recent discussion he remembered they had been told that the continuance of these Bills was a mere matter of form, that it would be only
 742
 MR. REDMOND  continued: No case had been made out by the Government for granting them such powers as they asked, and they had the evidence of the Judges of the land that there was no need of coercive measures. If these Acts were continued in the absence of any reason for them, the people of Ireland would say they were governed by men who did not know the state of that country. The Government had better put a little more confidence in the people, and not so much in the Lord Lieutenant and magistrates.
 MR. CHARLES LEWIS , while regretting the tone of the speech of the hon. Member for Tyrone (Mr. Macartney) said, he thought, after what the Prime Minister had said with reference to the particular Act objected to, that the Motion for Adjournment ought not to be pressed; and in fairness to everybody, they should now divide without further delay on the second reading. In Committee, Motions could be made for the omission of certain Acts from the Schedule. For instance, he intended to move in Committee the omission of the Election Petitions Act. He believed it was essential to the protection of the character of honest men and to the credit of the House that that Act should be altered.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  seconded the Motion.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for what he had promised to do, and he had no doubt, he would redeem his promise. He was anxious to see something done, because four of these unexpired trusts were in the county which he represented, and with a very little power, they might settle things without much difficulty.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  contended that, as those Acts would not expire till the end of next Session, there was no necessity for passing that Session a Bill for their continuance. He thought the Government ought to accept the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the proposal of the Prime Minister showed that wisdom and conciliation for which he was remarkable; and, so far as it went, it was received by Irish Members with a very good spirit. He thought, however, that the right hon. Gentleman might, without at all interfering with the interests of the country, further agree to the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick, and then everybody would be satisfied, and there would be no further opposition to the Bill. He suggested that the renewal of these Bills should not be for two years, but for one year up to a fixed time, so as to obviate any chance of their dropping through in the event of a Dissolution of Parliament.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he should not have opposed an ordinary Continuance Bill, but he objected strongly to including in such a measure debate-able matters, such as the Irish Coercion Acts, which had always been resisted by the Irish Members. He regarded the present Bill, for that reason, as irregular and unconstitutional.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must remind the hon. Member that he must not discuss the merits of the Bill, but must confine himself to the Motion for Adjournment.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman was perfectly in order in the remarks he was making.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Motion proposed by the hon. Member was not in Order. The question before the House was, that the Committee on the Bill be taken on Thursday.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Standing Order had been complied with, inasmuch as the House had "otherwise ordered," and Business had been set down on the Paper in the shape of certain Bills, in accordance with that Resolution, to be proceeded with at 12 o'clock that day.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  asked the Secretary of the Treasury, Whether, considering that the County Courts have been established nearly thirty years, and that many of the clerks have served from the opening of the Courts in 1847 to the present time, he will consider the claim of the clerks of County Courts to be entitled to the benefits of the Superannuation Act 1859?
 SIR JOHN GRAY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, the course now taken was perfectly unjust, and he hoped the Prime Minister would see the necessity of keeping the promise given in his absence by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If that promise was not kept, then he must say the course proposed to be taken by the Government was most unjust.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not in the House when the question was raised, and he therefore did not know how it came before the House. But he would state what had occurred with regard to the second reading of this Bill. On the Motion for Adjournment of the House, he stated that it would be exceedingly in-convenient if the House were then to take into consideration all the questions comprised in this Bill, and also the cross issues that would be raised, and he therefore suggested that the proper time to take them into consideration would be when the Bill was in Committee; and he promised that if hon. Gentlemen would allow them to proceed with the second reading of the Bill—discussing, if they pleased, the general principle of including a large number of Acts in one Bill of this kind—he would take the opportunity of saying that a day would
 746
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. and learned
 716
 MR. SULLIVAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is true that endeavours have been made and are still being prosecuted to obstruct or prevent the establishment by the Commissioners of Education of a National School in the neighbourhood of Altanagh, county Tyrone, under the management of the Catholic clergyman of the district, such obstruction being effected by the landlord evicting or threatening to evict each holding or premises in which it has been sought from time to time so to establish a national board school, unless on the condition of the board nominating himself as manager of any such school; whether it is true that the school last or most recently opened by the national board in the district has not since been placed under notice of eviction by the landlord in prosecution of such a purpose; and, whether he will have any objection to lay upon the Table, Copies of any Correspondence between the Commissioners of Education and the landlord in question in reference to those schools; and Copies of any Reports upon the subject by any of the National Board Inspectors?
 THE O'DONOGHUE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether, considering that the Papers relating to the proposed changes in the constitution of the University of Dublin have only just
 762
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he believed the Imprisonment for Debt Act was not intended to apply to the Channel Islands. Since the Question had been put on the Paper, he had taken steps to procure information on the Subject.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, as my hon. and learned Friend and the House are aware, the Supreme Court of Judicature Act of last Session provided for the Rules being laid on the Table of the House after they had been made by Her Majesty. As no such Rules have
 764
 MR. M'DONALD  said, he thought anyone would excuse him when he said he had a very strong desire to see that the lives as well as the limbs of the working miners of this country should be protected, and he would most heartily support the proposition made by the hon. Member in favour of a Royal Commission, if he saw that such a proposal was going in any way to promote that
 781
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he also had to thank the hon. Member for Staleybridge for having brought the matter before the House. He knew it was a matter on which the hon. Member had for a long time taken a deep interest, and the careful way in which he had studied it, was shown by the able way in which he had brought it before the House. When this unfortu-
 783 784
 SIR TOLLEMACHE SINCLAIR  in-rising pursuant to Notice,
 "To move for a Copy of the Correspondence between the directors of the Highland and Sutherland and Caithness Railway Company and the Postmaster General on the subject of the arrangements for the transmission of the mails from Helmsdale to Wick and Thurso, and to call attention to the very serious inconvenience and loss which will result to the counties of Sutherland, Caithness, and Orkney, if the Post Office authorities persist in the determination which they have expressed, not to continue the present mail service beyond Helmsdale, but to send the mail bags by ordinary trains as parcels," 785 786 d d
 SIR TOLLEMACHE SINCLAIR  denied that he said anything of the kind. What he said was, that the pressure of Public Business would probably prevent him from saying what he wished to say in Parliament.
 SIR TOLLEMACHE SINCLAIR : Sir, I rise to Order. The Postmaster General has no right to allude to what is not before the House.
 SIR TOLLEMACHE SINCLAIR  said, the Postmaster General had not informed the House by what means the Sunday mails were to be conveyed. As a director of the Highland, Sutherland, and Caithness Railway, he could state that his brother directors were determined that no train should run on Sundays.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was quite content to accept the observations of his hon. and learned Friend as having been made in no spirit of hostility, but with a desire to aid the Government in their proposed legislation, if they could see their way to carry it through. There were five Bills among the Orders of the Day, three of them having reference to the transfer of land and two to the system of Judicature. As to the first three, his hon. and learned Friend had not suggested that they should or could be proceeded with. He (the Attorney General), however, would rather limit the observation to that which formed the subject of the first Order of the Bay, because, though there were three Bills relating to Land Titles and Transfer, it was the first which was the important one; it was a long Bill, which would doubtless occupy much time whenever it was dealt with in Committee. It had, however, been very fully discussed on the second reading, and a variety of suggestions had been made, which would assist them greatly in dealing with it on a future occasion. With regard to the two other Bills, the Real Property Vendors and Purchasers Bill, and the Real Property Limitation Bill, there was no substantial opposition in the House to them, and they might perhaps be carried through with the assistance which he was sure he should receive
 790 791 792
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that the hon. Member had forgotten that the Budget speech distinctly provided for this Vote.
 THE CHAIRMAN  called the attention of the hon. Gentleman to the fact, that the Vote before the Committee did not touch upon the question of pauper lunatics, and suggested that it would be better to postpone the question till the Vote relating to that matter came on for consideration.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  pointed out that the principle on which lunatics of different classes should be dealt with was equally important in England and Scotland, and hoped that no system would be adopted in either country which would militate against the adoption of the most perfect form of treatment.
 THE CHAIRMAN  pointed out that in a Vote of that kind the hon. Gentleman was out of Order in alluding to the condition of pictures in the House of Lords.
 THE CHAIRMAN  again called the hon. Member to Order, and informed him that the subject under consideration was the pictures in the National Gallery, and not those in the Houses of Parliament.
 MR. HUBBARD  (London)  said, that was a subject well worthy of the attention of the Government. He had long been of opinion that nothing could be more unworthy of a great country than to levy fines upon persons who received offices of dignity or emolument, or titles of honour.
 MR. SULLIVAN  warned the Committee against believing that the Viceroys of Ireland invariably spent their £20,000 a-year in that country. There was a considerable amount of poetry in that statement; but he felt it due to the present Lord Lieutenant to say that public opinion did not point to him as one of those to whom these remarks applied.
 MR. SULLIVAN  inquired, whether that Vote would supersede the necessity of granting £100 a-year to members of Dr. Livingstone's family? adding that he saw the proposal of that grant with pleasure.
 MR. GOLDNET  called attention to the various offices now included in the Post Office, and amongst them those of the Savings Banks and Telegraph, the latter of which, he was informed, was not productive of any profit. He considered that reform in the management of the Post Office departments ought to be effected, and that a Bill ought to be brought in to place them all under a Board with one head.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, they had received no intimation as to whether the addition to the Motion would be agreed to by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, who proposed to ransack the whole world for some precedent for that particular kind of legislation which he had so long sought to force on the House. If the hon. Member were indeed labouring in the interests of civil and religious liberty, he should recollect that there was such a portion of the world as the United States of America, in which the institutions which fostered civil and religious liberty had just as strong a hold as in any part of the world. He hoped there would be no objection to asking whether in the Dominion of Canada like Returns could be found. The Catholic Members of that House were quite content that the Motion should be acceded to, for they would welcome any information in relation to Catholic practice or affairs, collected in good faith. They only asked that the inquiry should be made without bias, and that it should be made as wide as possible—in fact, as wide as the civilized world itself.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would remind the hon. Member that in the Irish Church Act, no compensation was to be given to Her Majesty or to any corporation for loss of patronage. For that reason, he thought the Government were justified in putting these provisions into the Bill. He also opposed the Amendment on the ground that no
 838
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it would be left to the General Assembly to frame them. His object was to suspend the operation of the Act till the General Assembly should take action.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in opposing the Amendment, said, that it would be very difficult to carry it out.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 12, after "entitled," to insert "unless the sum shall be otherwise provided," expressing a hope that both a general and local fund would be provided, which would prevent the security of patrons from having to rest on the income of the clergyman of the parish.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the provision was really to prevent any unnecessary or prolonged litigation; but he had no objection to an appeal being made to the Sheriff, as it was possible that mistakes might be made by the sheriff-substitute.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  then moved an Amendment of which he had given Notice.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the clause having been amended could not be postponed.
 THE CHAIRMAN  ruled that the Amendment was not irregular, inasmuch as it was enacting, whereas the Amendment of the hon. and gallant General had been only recommendatory.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, it was too late to make the suggested Amendment.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  objected, and said he could not imagine anything more certain to give offence to the Free Church.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  objected to the Amendment.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, Dr; Cook's opinion was not of much value with him, because he was one of a minority of seven or eight who lately opposed the Bill.
 THE CHAIRMAN  ruled that the new clause proposed by the hon. Member for Falkirk (Mr. Ramsay), being contradictory to Clause 7, could not be proposed in its present form.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he preferred the Preamble as it stood.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAX-WELL  moved his Amendment.
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether in the matter of the claims of the Troops to further captured property as part of the Kirwee Booty of War, Her Majesty's Government intends to follow the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Army Prize, and the precedent set in the same matter by Lord Palmerston's Administration in 1854, by submitting these claims to the decision of the High Court of Admiralty, under the Act 3 and 1 Vict. c. 65?
 MR. KINNAIRD  believed the Treasury had exercised a wise discretion in making an allowance to Dr. Living-
 828
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he should be glad to second the request of the hon. Member for the county of Wexford (Sir George Bowyer). The more information they could have upon the subject the better. But why did his hon. Friend interpose a certain expression about a certain individual in the German Empire? He meant the legisla-
 833
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : In reply, Sir, to my hon. Friend, I must remind him that the question which Lord Palmerston referred to the High Court of Admiralty in 1864 was, what forces or portion of the Army in the field should share in the amount which had been granted by the Crown as prize-money. The question which my hon. Friend now asks us to refer is, what should be considered prize-money.
 759
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that an experimental scheme was first tried in the metropolitan district. It was not true that the position of the minor  employés
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, such a motive as that which was attributed to them could not possibly have actuated the Government, the notice having been given by that distinguished Representative of North Britain, the late Postmaster General. If, however, any real difficulty of a grievance were felt under the Act of last Session, the Post Office would not object to a reference to arbitration. The main point of the hon. Baronet's speech was, that there should be arbitration, and the Post Office would not object to that course. As regarded the conveyance of mails by ordinary passenger trains, he might observe that that had been done in the ease of the mail services from Manchester, Birmingham, and other largo towns of England and Ireland, and he could not for the life of him understand why it should not be satisfactory in the case under consideration. What the hon. Baronet appeared to desire did not seem to him (Lord J. Manners) of the slightest practical importance. The main delivery of letters at Wick and Thurso must still take place early in the morning, and the increased cost to the public
 788
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he must leave the hon. Baronet and his colleagues to settle that question with the Company.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  continued: At all events the hon. Baronet wished to have two barrels to his gun, and one of them had just been fired off. He had no objection to produce the Correspondence which had been moved for. The contract which the hon. Baronet referred to expired naturally, and of itself, and a notification to that effect was given in the course of last autumn. With regard to the statement in the letter to which he had just alluded, that the conduct of the Postal Department must have originated in the animosity which the present Government felt against the three northern counties of Scotland in consequence of the character of their representation in the House of Commons—
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had had the pleasure of reading in the columns of a morning paper the speech just delivered in the form of a letter; but there was one sentence in the letter which was omitted from the speech—he meant that in which the hon. Baronet said he preferred writing a letter to a newspaper to delivering a speech in the House of Commons.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the position of the provincial letter-carriers would be taken into consideration with a view to a revision of the rate of pay.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the amount asked for the salaries for suburban letter-carriers in London was £46,270 for the year, against £43,606 last year; and that the new scale of pay applied to Edinburgh and Dublin.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that taking last month, there were 200,000 more telegrams despatched and received than were despatched and received during the corresponding month of 1873, a gratifying proof of the immense development of this particular branch of the Post Office system.
 MR. MUNDELLA : On the Question, that the Bill be read a third time. I shall move that it is inexpedient to pass the Bill until the names of the Commissioners are given.
 MR. MUNDELLA  asked the Postmaster General, If he will inform the House when the scheme for improving the position of the employés in the minor establishments promised before the Whitsuntide Recess will be promul-
 760 employés
 MR. ORR-EWING  said, rather than have such a rule, the Church of Scotland would have patronage continued.
 MR. ORR-EWING  said, that if such rules were laid down by Parliament, it would probably lead to a second Disruption.
 MR. ORR-EWING  did not think that any grievance would arise under the clause.
 MR. DISRAELI : My hon. Friend opposite is labouring under several misconceptions. In the first place, he is labouring under a misconception, when he supposes I said I would make a statement with respect to the purchase of these pictures. A statement was made by my hon. Friend, to the effect that one of the pictures out of several was worthless, and I expressed a contrary opinion. No doubt, when the sub-
 819 820 821 corpus vile corpus vile 822 chefs d'æuvre 823 The Times The Times
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not think the course of Business ought to be interrupted by such a circumstance; but it is possible they may be given before that time.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, before we came to a decision on these Bills we gave them all the consideration their importance demanded, and the opinion of Her Majesty's Government was, that it would not be to the public advantage to proceed with one only. They were so drawn and so fitted into each other, that it would have been alike inconvenient and inexpedient to have taken such a course as would have separated them from each other. From the state of Public Business, I believe it would be quite impossible, if we looked to carry both Bills this Session, that we should succeed. Were we to try to do so, I believe the Session would be procrastinated to an extent probably not desired by most hon. Members. As I am on the subject, I may say that some days before we arrived at this decision, the Lord Chancellor had informed me it would be necessary, in consequence of the delay respecting the Rules, to extend the time from the 3rd of November to the 1st of January. That was inevitable; and, of course, that was a circumstance which we took into consideration. Now, it appears to me that if these Bills are reintroduced and subjected to the advantage of a calm, and at the same time energetic and vigorous, discussion, they may be carried next year, and quite in time for the arrangements of the summer Assizes. Therefore, we shall ask for a suspension of the Bill of last year for a term not beyond November, 1875. It is probable that by May next year we shall have brought the matter to a conclusion.
 MR. DISRAELI : I hope, Sir, to be able to follow the precedent to which the right hon. Gentleman refers, but it will not be convenient to give the names to-day. A very short time, however, will elapse before they are given.
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY , in reply, said, that the applications made through the hon. Member and the hon. Member for Cardiganshire, for the erection of a lighthouse in the vicinity of St. Tudwall's Roads, Cardigan Bay, were now receiving the attentive consideration of Trinity House and the Board of Trade. A final decision had not yet been arrived at on the subject, but would very soon be, and it might be hoped satisfactorily.
 MR. FRASER-MACKINTOSH  believed that when the Bill passed, a central fund would be raised for the purpose of purchasing the rights of presentees, and hoped the Lord Advocate would adhere to the clause.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had been told by the Under Foreign Secretary that the Return would be voluminous, and therefore he had confined himself to countries in Europe in which there had been legislation since 1829, when there was legislation in this country. With regard to America, it was well known there was no written law on this subject, but there was an unwritten Code which controlled institutions of this sort. In Canada there existed regulations on this subject, but they were under the Treaty of Quebec, and not the voluntary product of the Legislature. So also with regard to Malta.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not know whether the Government intended to assent to the Amendment. The proposed addition was perfectly unnecessary. The information could be obtained upstairs with regard to America,
 834
 MR. NEWDEGATE  then moved the addition of "the Empire of Brazil."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  moved for an Address for Copies and Translations of any Laws, Ordinances, or regulations relating to Monastic and Conventual Institutions connected with the Church of Rome, and to the inmates or members thereof, especially to the regular Orders of the Church of Rome, which may be enforced by the authority of the State, and are at present operative in France, in the German Empire, in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, in the Russian Empire, in Italy, in Sweden and Norway, in Belgium, in Spain, in Portugal, and in Switzerland.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rejoiced that the Government had brought in the Bill. Although every possible liberty should be given to parents it was necessary, for the safety of the public, that prejudices
 837
 COLONEL ALEXANDER  said, he had received a letter from an influential constituent, saying that the great power which was left to the General Assembly-was the one blot in the Bill. He (Colonel Alexander) was quite unwilling to leave to any Church Court such enormous power, and thought that the regulations which might be made should be ratified by Parliament before they came into operation.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  said, it appeared to be the wish of the House that this Return should be as comprehensive as possible, and he would suggest that in addition to Turkey, Armenia, Syria, Palestine, and the Australian Colonies should be included.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the item referred to was in no sense a contribution to Edinburgh on the marriage of the Duke of Edinburgh. The inhabitants agreed to illuminate all the public buildings belonging to the town. They asked the Government to illuminate all the public buildings belonging to the country, and accordingly £300 was expended for that purpose. He repeated that that was not a contribution to the City of Edinburgh, and he might add that as the £300 did not suffice to pay the cost of illuminating the Government buildings, it was supplemented from local sources.
 MR. M'LAREN  was of opinion that the same rule ought to apply to the whole of the United Kingdom.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he wished to say a few words on the subject of Post Office telegraphs, which was the next Vote proposed. They were asked to vote about £50,000 for the maintenance of Post Office telegraphs and constructions. He was desirous of knowing how much of these allowances was chargeable to capital and how much to revenue? After quoting certain figures, the hon. Gentleman declared that the whole accounts were in a state of chaos, and that there was no means of ascertaining what was capital and what was revenue. In the present Vote, £7,000 was charged for ordinary maintenance and repairs that were plainly chargeable against revenue. He believed that the telegraph service, if the accounts were properly stated, as between revenue and capital, never did pay one shilling of revenue, and would not do so for some years.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, with reference to colonial matters, he had the honour of being a Member of the Committee that received evidence on the subject. The hon. Member who had just sat down had stated that he believed that no additional expense was incurred in the reconstruction of that office. Well, he (Mr. M'Laren) remembered that the evidence given before the Committee showed that there was a small addition to the expense; but it was alleged that the benefits were so great of the supposed reconstruction, that eventually savings would arise therefrom, and the Committee, although with some apparent reluctance, did not report upon that subject. But the Committee were at the same time told that in order to effect the so-called economical reconstruction or arrangement, two gentlemen had agreed to retire, though the witness could not tell them what were to be the retiring allowances. He found, however, by the Papers before the House, that one of those gentlemen (Sir George Barrow, Bart.) retired on £1,063 13 s d
 MR. HERMON  said, he had received a mass of information upon the subject, and the conclusion he had arrived at
 782
 COLONEL LEIGH , in seconding the Motion, said, that scarcely a month passed without some colliery accident occurring, and that their very frequency familiarized people with them and prevented them from fully appreciating their enormity. They had got so accustomed to hear of them that they did not take those precautions to prevent them which lay within their reach. The accident to which his hon. Friend called the attention of the House was most lamentable, and unhappily not one of very rare occurrence, and something should be clone at once to prevent them wherever it was practicable. His (Colonel Leigh's) opinion was, that colliery proprietors ought to be made to pay all that was necessary in order to make their mines safe. Coal had been very dear, and the coal proprietors had been making enormous fortunes. The least thing in return that the coalowners could do was to spend every farthing that was required to make their collieries as safe as possible.
 MR. GATHOENE HARDY , in reply, said, he had answered a Question on the subject not very long ago. It would be impossible for him to state in detail what was intended to be done within the limits of a reply to a Question, and he would therefore reserve his reply until he was able to state fully the decision which had been, or might be, arrived at by the Government.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, he would like to ask the hon. Gentleman, if it were a
 810
 MR. ANDERSON : The hon. Gentleman is not aware that the Sheriff Courts in Scotland have a wider jurisdiction than the County Courts in England. They have criminal jurisdiction, which the County Courts have not, and that is an additional reason why the cost should be paid by the State.
 MR. ANDERSON  repeated that the Sheriff Courts had criminal jurisdiction as well as civil, which the County Courts had not.
 MR. ANDERSON  was of opinion that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not shown why the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland should be treated exceptionally with reference to this stamp duty.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, he thought this was an extraordinary charge and required further explanation than was given in the Parliamentary Papers. It appeared that the Duke of Abercorn on his appointment to his present office had to pay a stamp duty of £1,000, whereas his Predecessor had to pay a stamp duty only of £200, and the Government proposed to pay the difference of £800. He should like to know why the Puke of Abercorn was to be treated differently from other persons who received a valuable appointment, and who had to pay a stamp duty in proportion to the value of their appointment.
 MR. ANDERSON , in rising to move, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 42, to leave out from "Her Majesty" to end of clause, said, patronage was held in three hands—the Crown, certain municipalities, and private persons. Parliament was entitled of right to deal with patronage in the hands of the Crown as national property. With patronage in the hands of municipalities and private individuals, Parliament was not entitled so to deal, and if they desired compensation, it ought to be given them. He did not believe that every municipality would want compensation, but he thought it better not to leave the question an open one.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that it was not exactly correct to say that private patronage possessed no marketable value in Scotland. He knew of one living which in 1862 was sold for £580, which was worth about £270 a-year. This was a matter of nearly three years' purchase. He thought, however, that as the Committee had confiscated the rights of municipalities, they might also confiscate the rights of private patrons.
 MR. ANDERSON  considered the Amendment better than the original clause. It would not do to leave the provision for the making of rules as it was.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, the difficulty would be met by giving power to the congregation to buy the patronage up at one year's purchase.
 MR. GOSCHEN  asked what were the special circumstances which had induced the Government to give this sum?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he did not make any objection to the Vote, but had thought it desirable that the Govern-
 825
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that in 1873–4 there were 268 officers of the old companies in receipt of annuities, whereas in 1874–5 there were only 185, the amount asked for in the former year being £25,000, as against £12,500 asked for in the present year. He wished to know whether that difference in the number of officers was owing to their having been absorbed into the service, or to their having commuted?
 MR. GOSCHEN  inquired what steps the Government proposed to take with regard to Dover Harbour?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would probably be able to give a more distinct answer on the Report.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the claims of the railway companies respecting telegraphs were transmitted to the late Government by their Predecessors, and therefore he was surprised to have heard that these claims had arisen suddenly. He pointed out to the Committee, at the time of purchase, that the same right of telegraphy was being paid for four times over; but such was the excessive desire to acquire the telegraphs at any cost, that there appeared to be perfect blindness on this point, and he divided the Committee several times only to find himself in a minority of 1. As regarded the aid to local rates, he wished to know what the ratepayers would have to pay this year, whether the same rates, less £600,000, or less £300,000?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that in order that there might be no misunderstanding on the subject, he wished to know whether he was correct in saying that the new Supplementary Estimates which it was proposed to discuss to-night amounted to £219,000 or £220,000? In other words, did the total of £220,000 now submitted to the Committee represent the new Supplementary Estimates in addition to the Supplementary Estimates which were voted before, and which amounted to about £160,000?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that therefore the total Supplementary Estimate amounted to £150,000 for the Navy and £220,000 to be proposed that evening, exclusive of what might be termed the Budget Supplementary Estimates—namely, those which were indicated to the Committee by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Budget Speech. As he understood the matter, while there was on the one hand about £370,000 of additional expenditure of an Imperial character; on the other, there was a saving, if it could be called a saving, of about £330,000, which would be paid less in relief of local taxation than was anticipated at the time of the Budget. The ratepayers would receive £350,000 less than they were led to expect by the Budget Speech in respect of the police, and £20,000 less in respect of
 804
 MR. GOSCHEN  understood that the ratepayers would receive so much more in the next year. This was the point on which he required information.
 MR. HUNT  explained that he had not been present to reply to his right hon. and gallant Friend (Sir John Hay) on the subject, in consequence of his having been under the impression that the question was not to be brought forward that evening. He wished to state that his absence was not from any want of courtesy either towards his right hon. and gallant Friend, or the gallant officer in question.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the subject was one of great difficulty. He thought he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the matter had now approached a point at which further delay would be avoided; but he believed it would not be conducive to the welfare of the public service to lay upon the Table the voluminous correspondence which had passed between the Local Government Board and the authorities at Epping. There could be no question that the Epping sanitary authority was under the same obligation as its predecessor to enforce a water supply in the district, and he hoped it would comply with that obligation.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  stated that that was their intention.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in reply, said, that within the last few days he had received a detailed Report on this subject, but he had hardly had time to consider it. In his opinion, it would not be desirable to lay it on the Table of the House; but the more material portions of it would probably be published in the Appendix to the Report of the Local Government Board.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, the hon. Gentleman had answered himself. The Sheriff Courts were used for local at well as Imperial purposes. These were analogous to the quarter sessions and petty sessions in England, the costs of which were borne by the localities. He would add that an Act of Parliament laid down the proportion to be paid out of Imperial and local funds for the Sheriff Courts which were used for both purposes.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought that such a proposal as that involved in the Amendment had better be given effect to in a Burials Bill; but he would not offer any objection if it was thought de-
 836
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, it had been introduced for the purpose of amending certain defects in the Act of 1871, relative to the person who should put the Act in operation and to the recovery of penalties for neglecting to comply with its provisions. The simple object of the Bill was to provide that the Local Government Board should have power to control the proceedings of Boards of Guardians with respect to putting the law into force, and that it should not be possible for those bodies to set themselves against the law. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. FAWCETT  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to state what portion of the remission of taxation which had been made in the course of the Session would take effect this year?
 MR. FAWCETT  wished to know how much the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken credit for under the head of telegraph revenue in his Financial statement?
 MR. FAWCETT  thanked the Government for making the grant. The exploration had been started and carried on partly by a very public spirited man in Brighton—Mr. Willett—who had not the smallest pecuniary interest in the matter, aided by others, who had done everything they could to avoid such an appeal as the present, and whose efforts must cease unless they received assistance. The experiment was of the utmost scientific value, although no coal might be discovered. He did not think the most ardent friend of economy could blame the Government for carrying out the experiment.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he hoped that before the Vote was agreed to, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give some explanation with respect to the Supplemental Estimates. The Committee were called upon to vote something like £600,000 on those Estimates, and yet, according to what he had said in the course of his Financial Statement, the right hon. Gentleman had estimated the surplus for the year at £350,000, and since that statement had been made, the Revenue Returns, according to his own admission, had not exceeded his expectations. He therefore wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman what he had in the shape of additional Revenue to set against these Supplemental Estimates, so as to prevent the country having to face a deficiency in its finances at the end of the year? As he understood the matter, the Committee was to be called upon to vote £350,000 towards the local expenses for the police, and £250,000 towards the local expenses for lunatics; but next year those sums would be doubled, and the result would be that unless the Revenue far exceeded their expectations, a very serious and important deficit would have to be met. It seemed to him that in calling upon the Committee to vote these Supplementary Estimates, the right hon. Gentleman was adopting the dangerous principle of promising certain remissions of taxation, the full effect of which would not come into operation during the present financial year. He wished it to be distinctly understood, however, that in voting the present Estimates he (Mr. Fawcett) was not pledged to the practice of making grants from the Imperial funds to local purposes. He looked upon such a practice as mischievous, and he believed it was fraught with future evils to the country. Further, he thought they were about to vote money which in the present state of the Revenue they could not properly afford.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he was obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for his statement, and could assure him that though he had not the happiness to be in the House when the Financial Statement was made, he had carefully studied it since, and had understood from that study, that certain of these payments had been provided for. This year the Supplementary Estimates not mentioned in the Budget amounted to £370,000. Suppose, then, that everything connected with the financial condition of the country remained the same, what was the position in which we were placed? Everything had been run so extremely fine, that, taking into account these Supplementary Estimates, the surplus would be reduced to nothing. The Secretary of the Treasury had explained that we should not have to make all the payments for local charges in the present year, but all the responsibilities would be incurred. We should owe the money, and therefore he thought his contention was just—that in considering these Supplementary Estimates, we must bear in mind that our financial position was such that we should commence the financial year with a surplus of not more than £50,000 or £60,000. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in order to get his surplus of £450,000, had taken from his account Telegraph expenditure amounting to about £350,000. As he understood, the revenue from the Telegraphs would be £1,230,000, and the expenditure £930,000, leaving a surplus of £300,000, which, with another £100,000, would make a total of £400,000. When the revenue and the expenditure were so finely balanced it seemed to him that the proceedings of the Government were characterized by want of caution. They had credited themselves with a certain amount of revenue on Telegraphs
 806
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, he wished before the House went into Committee, to express his opinion that the Attorney General's explanation of the course of the Government in reference to the Judicature Act and the Amendment Bills was very unsatisfactory. The whole statement amounted to this—that there was not time in the present Session to pass the Amending Bill; but if that was so, the Government was alone responsible. The Bill was one of the measures mentioned in the Speech from the Throne, and as late as the 8th of Juno, the Prime Minister mentioned it as one of those which the Government intended to press forward and pass this Session. The fact, however, was, that the Government had preferred to push forward legislation in reference to which no promise had been given, and to drop that which the House and the country expected to see proceeded with. Already the House had dealt with the greater part of the Bill in Committee, and if it was to be dropped, the time had been wasted. As he had suggested on Saturday, there would be ample time to pass the Bill by the 10th or 12th of August, if the question as it affected Ireland was postponed until next Session.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  observed that he had not suggested that the cases of the three countries should be taken sepa-
 795
 SIR HENRY JAMES  asked, Whether the Government have considered the expediency of proceeding with at least one of the Judicature Bills this Session?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he did not object to the Vote, but he thought it would be better if the matter were placed on a legal footing. A great many of the fines, under the disguise of fees and stamps, imposed on the acceptance of office seemed to him to be a mistake. Some years ago, a Committee, of which his right hon. Friend the Member for the City (Mr. Goschen) was Chairman, was appointed to consider the matter; but owing to a change of Government nothing was done, and he suggested whether the inquiry might not be taken up now and carried out.
 MR. BUTT , although he usually distrusted any proposal to increase the salaries of officials in Ireland, thought that it would only be an act of justice to place the chairman of the division in question in the first class.
 MR. BUTT  rose to address the House, when—
 MR. STANSFELD  moved the insertion of the following new clause, after Clause 18:—
 (Notice where coffin contains more than one body.) Where there is in the coffin in which any deceased person is brought for burial the body of any other deceased person, or the body of any still-born child, the undertaker or other person who has charge of the funeral shall deliver to the person who buries or performs any funeral or religious service for the burial of such body or bodies notice in writing signed by such undertaker or other person, and stating to the best of his knowledge and belief with respect to each such body the following particulars:—( a b c
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, that it was unjust that persons when appointed to an office which they might hold for a short time should have to pay a large stamp duty. When he was appointed on a previous occasion to the office he now held, he had to pay in stamp duty the same amount as if he had been appointed to an office which he could hold for life, and he held office only for a few days, the Government having within that time after, resigned.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the chairman of quarter sessions in the West Riding of the county of Cork being entitled to rank in the first class, but the present was not the time to raise the question. It could not fail, however, to be taken into consideration hereafter.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, there was a proposition made by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford, that the clauses relating to Ireland should be left out; but that was impossible, because, in whatever manner the Imperial Court of Appeal was constituted, it would remain the final Court for all three countries, and therefore although Ireland might at present be omitted, its form and character yet were of vital importance to Ireland. He could not assent to the suggestion that a Bill relating to this country should be passed, even with the undertaking that it should be afterwards extended to Ireland and Scotland. When the Government came to appoint the Judges of the Imperial Court, they must be influenced by the consideration whether appeals from Ireland and Scotland were to be disposed of by it. They could not proceed with the Bill, therefore, under the idea that it was one in which the Irish Members had no interest. That being so, the questions which arose on the several Amendments on the Paper—and some of them were of great importance—must be discussed, and it was obvious that they could not be adequately considered at this period of the Session.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  contended that the last suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman could not be carried out. The Bill was not intended to amend the Act of last year, but to constitute one Imperial Court for the Three Kingdoms, and it was of great importance that that Court should be constituted by one Bill, and not by separate measures. He objected to any discussion or consideration of the question of the appellate jurisdiction separately for England.
 MR. LEITH  also objected to the unlimited power given by this clause to the General Assembly. The terms of the rules and regulations ought to be inserted in the clause.
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is or not the fact that the law of arrest on mesne process still exists in the Channel Islands, and that an Englishman going to reside in Jersey may, without any notice or action brought, be arrested for a debt incurred in England, and to a creditor resident in England, notwithstanding the abolition in England of the law of imprisonment for debt?
 DR. LUSH  rose to call attention to the condition of the sanitary district of Epping, and to move that a Copy of the Correspondence relating to the subject be laid on the Table.
 DR. LUSH  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether any report has been made to him respecting last year's outbreak of fever in Marylebone and neighbouring districts, supposed to be connected with infected milk; and, if so, whether he will lay it upon the Table of the House?
 DR. LUSH  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will state how far he is prepared to give effect to the representations on behalf of the Army Medical Service lately made to him by Sir William Fergusson, Mr. Ernest Hart, and others, spokesmen of a deputation of the British Medical Association?
 DR. LUSH  supported the Bill on the ground that the disease was infectious, and that the general law must be enforced for the general good.
 MR. RAMSAY  expressed his surprise that the Lord Advocate should have quoted the Irish Church Act, which he, when in opposition, had regarded as an act of spoliation. He trusted the hon. Member for Glasgow would persevere with his Amendment.
 MR. RAMSAY  suggested that the clause should be postponed, until he had had an opportunity of bringing forward the new clause of which he had given Notice.
 MR. RAMSAY  considered the statement of the hon. Member (Mr. W. H. Smith) conveyed an unsatisfactory assurance. They ought to have an assurance that the money would be paid, and unless it were given, he must again say he should resist the Vote.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, that unless in Scotland they received some contribution in aid of the police in respect of the period between 26th March and the 15th May, they certainly would not get a contribution of equal amount to that which would be given for England, and he would therefore suggest that the same allowance ought to be made for Scotland in respect of those 50 clays which was made for this country. He could see no reason why one country should be treated differently to the other. In Scotland they paid the same taxes as in England, and in all other respects contributed in an equal degree to the national Exchequer; and if his present demand was not acceded to, he should feel inclined to resist the Vote.
 MR. RAMSAY  found that, from an excessive desire not to detain the Committee, he had not made himself properly understood. He did not intend to ask that the Vote for Scotland should be made upon any other principle than that which the right hon. Gentleman had laid down as applicable to England. His object was to secure that the system of treatment which was adopted, and which was considered the best, should
 815
 MR. RAMSAY  said, he would like to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer for an explanation of the fact that there was no Vote for Scotland? They were asked to vote a sum of £166,000 as a contribution for the maintenance of pauper lunatics in England, and £56,000 for Ireland, and he feared that, unless some explanation were given of the cause which induced the Government to refrain from asking a Vote for Scotland, there would be some misapprehension in the North, and he desired to avoid that. He understood it was intended that a Vote should be allowed for Scotland, calculated on the same principle as that for England, and dating from the same time. If that were the case, the half-year's payment for pauper lunatics would be due to the parochial authorities in Scotland at the same time as in England. But he had understood from remarks by the right hon. Gentleman, that
 812
 MR. RAMSAY  explained that what he meant was, he could add nothing here to what he had told the Chancellor of the Exchequer privately.
 MR. RAMSAY  wished that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give some explanation on certain points in the Votes affecting Scotland? The Committee were called upon to vote £166,000 for the maintenance of pauper lunatics in England, and £56,000 for a similar purpose in Ireland. He did not perceive that there was any sum put down for the maintenance of pauper lunatics in Scotland. He feared
 805
 MR. VANCE  also asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is true, as stated by the "Ulster Gazette," that a perfectly legal procession in Armagh was attacked with stones by an infuriated mob, who were the aggressors, and that there was no evidence that the shot which was fired proceeded from the Orange party?
 MR. WHITWELL  asked, why the metropolitan police was dealt with differently to the county and borough police, by giving a quarter of the actual expenditure incurred? The Vote was for nine months, and was equal to £206,000 for the year. The county and borough Vote was for £160,000, or £320,000 for the year. The Government was about to give £206,000 for a population of about 3,000,000, and only £320,000 for a population of 20,000,000. It was giving an immense advantage to the metropolis, that had already got so many advantages over the country generally.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, the sum was a very large one, and he wished to know why it had not been included in the original Estimate?
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  asked if the same scale of increase would be applied to the letter-carriers of Edinburgh and Dublin as of London?
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said, he also supported the Vote as being a national experiment which might be productive of the best possible results. It appeared probable that when the boring had been carried 100 or 200 feet further, it being now already pushed below the Oxford clay, the object which scientific men had in making it would be ascertained. Those men, however, out of whose pockets the £3,000 already expended had come, had exhausted their resources, and the experiment would have to be abandoned, if the Government did not come, to the rescue. The expenditure of the public money proposed was, therefore, in his opinion, under the circumstances, a good one, and it would be a pity if the enterprize were relinquished for want of funds.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  thought that no kind of security could be worse than that, and hoped the public spirit of Scotland would obviate the necessity for it.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said, there would otherwise be no guarantee that the rules would be framed.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  proposed a further Amendment, in the shape of a Proviso, making it necessary for the rules to be submitted to Parliament and approved before the clause could come into operation.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR , in moving as an Amendment in page 4, line 7, after "include," to insert "persons having a right to sittings, and persons
 843
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  also supported the measure, the object of which was not to permit Guardians to make partial what Parliament had intended to be a general law.
 MR. MARK STEWART  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that a great diversity of opinion existed on the subject, and that there were some persons who had gone so far as to designate the Bill as a measure of compensation. He trusted that the Amendment would not be pressed, and that the Government would adhere to the clause.
 MR. MARK STEWART  agreed that there was a strong feeling in Scotland on the subject, and was quite sure from the
 813
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  complained that the county of Cork, which was the largest in Ireland, was not placed in the list in the appointment of its chairman of quarter sessions as a first-class county, and that the chairmen of other smaller counties, such as Kilkenny, Monaghan, and Armagh had larger salaries, which was, he thought, a great injustice. He also wished to draw attention especially to the meagre payment vouchsafed to clerks of the peace in the county, the result of which was that when an able man was found there, he was generally removed from the county as a reward for his merits.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  objected to both the Motion and the Amendment proposed to be made upon it, and would ask, supposing an application for this information made to the authorities in France and Spain and other countries were refused, how was the Resolution of that House to be carried out?
 MR. MCCARTHY DOWNING  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is true, as stated in the "Ulster Examiner" of the 14th instant, that James Mallon, while standing on the grounds of the Catholic Seminary at Armagh, and in conversation with a Catholic clergyman, was dangerously wounded by a bullet fired by one of an Orange party assembled at Armagh on the 13th instant, in the presence of County Inspector Faussett and a constabulary force; and, whether any arrests were made and an inquiry instituted, and is Mr. Faussett the same person who searched the Catholic Cathedral at Armagh for arms?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, from inquiries I have made, it would appear that on the 13th instant an Orange procession passed through Armagh at about 11 o'clock a.m. On their way to the railway station, stones were thrown at the processionists by the Roman Catholic party. The Orangemen in return threw stones at the Catholics, and fired shots—variously estimated at from 6 to 20. One shot wounded,
 761
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that as far as he had been able to ascertain the facts, the first application made by the Roman Catholic clergyman of the district of Altanagh, county Tyrone, to the Commissioners of Education to establish a National School there under his management, was rejected because he proposed that the school should be built on a site which was deemed unsuitable for the purpose. He then applied for leave to have a school established on another
 758
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, he thought the hon. Member was labouring under two misconceptions—first, that there was an undue absence of Irish Members from the House; and, second, that the Home Secretary had promised that the Government would afford any particular opportunity for the discussion of the question. What the Homo Secretary had stated was, that the question would be fully discussed either by the Senate of the University, or the House; and anyone who had watched the proceedings of the former body, would be aware that there had been a full discussion on the subject. He would remind the House that the proposed action consisted merely in the carrying out of the provisions of the University of Dublin Tests Act of 1873, and in the formation of a new Governing Body for the University. With regard to this latter change, the proposals made had met with the approval of all the parties prominently concerned, and he did not think it necessary to give a day for a discussion of the subject at that late period of the Session. It would be open to the hon. Member to raise the question on the Appropriation Bill.
 MR. M'LAGAN  suggested that the rules should be the same as in Clause 3.
 MR. M'LAGAN , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 1, line 9, after "Scotland," to insert—
 "Whereas there have been secessions from the Church of Scotland, as by law established, which have been more or loss directly caused by the operation of the first recited Act, and the continuance thereof is an obstacle to the reunion of Presbyterian Churches in Scotland which agree in doctrine, discipline, and worship,"
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  deprecated extending the power of coercion under these laws, and expressed a wish that greater discretion should be allowed to Boards of Guardians to act in accordance with the peculiar circumstance of each case. Of course, he did not know anything about vaccination; but in many parts of the country a strong and bitter hostility was growing up against the Acts. As a matter of policy, he thought it would be better not to stimulate what might create a superstition by enforcing penalties, but to endeavour to persuade people of the advantage of vaccination, and to ensure that the nature of the lymph should be of an unexceptionable character. He thought they had better relax the force of our legal penalties than increase them. He should, therefore, oppose the Bill.
 MR. MUNTZ  remarked that he did not wish to offer any factious opposition to it but he could not help feeling that the measure would leave the House in a very imperfect condition. There had been too little time devoted to its consideration, if regard were had to its great importance. For instance, he had to complain that three months might pass away before the registration of a birth was absolutely necessary; and that no provision was made for the registration of still-born children, which he thought would tend to encourage infanticide. A great number of children died in the first three months, and the births of many of those would escape registration, although their deaths would be registered. He did not, however, wish to move any Amendment on the subject; all he hoped for was that the Bill might work smoothly, but he was very much afraid it would not.
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  proposed to add Peru and Chili.
 MR. BOURKE  said, that early in the Session he informed the hon. Member for North Warwickshire there would be no objection on the part of the Government to obtaining the information he desired, and placing it in the Library; but he thought it would be a useless expenditure of public money to translate and print all the documents. They had got together the laws of the countries named, and he thought there was scholarship enough in the House to obviate the necessity for translations. There could be no objection on the part of the Government to add the countries named in the Amendment; but the Constitution of the United States rendered it almost impossible they could have any laws on the subject, and, in fact, an interesting book in the Library showed that they had none. Canada had two or three old laws on the subject. He would gladly put all the available information on the Table of the Library; but he thought that it would be a useless expenditure of public time and money to make translations.
 MR. LOWE  said, he wished to put a Question of which he had given Notice to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Up to 1867—that was during the time when the Colonial Office administered the government of all the colonies of the British Crown—the staff of that office consisted of one Secretary of State, one Parliamentary Under Secretary, a permanent Under Secretary, and one Assistant Secretary. In 1867, Sir Henry Holland was appointed as legal adviser to the Colonial Office at a salary of £1,000 or £1,200. In 1870 Lord Granville applied to the Treasury to turn the appointment of legal advisor into an assistant Secretaryship, pointing out that there was not sufficient work to occupy the legal adviser's time. That change was agreed to on behalf of the Treasury, and Sir Henry Holland was appointed as a second Assistant Secretary at £1,500 a-year. With that he believed there was no fault to find. The next step was, that less than two years ago, it was necessary to place the Colonial Office under the new Order in Council with regard to competition, and the office was rather weakened at the lower and strengthened at the upper parts, a third Assistant Secretary being appointed; so that whereas when the Colonial Office governed all the colonies it had only one Assistant Secretary; now that the colonies governed themselves, it had three. Moreover, the Home Office, which governed England, and had something to say to Scotch and Irish affairs, had no Assistant Secretary at all. If that third Assistant Secretary was unnecessary, there was not only a waste of £1,500 a-year, but the arrangement was fraught with other evil consequences, because the Parliamentary officials were relieved from the proper work of that office, and were only "crammed" for particular cases. Thus they lost a most powerful and useful means of educating future statesmen. The right
 793
 MR. R. REID , in moving the omission of the clause from the Bill, said, it had been said when the Bill was first spoken of, that it was introduced in compliance with the wishes of the great mass of the people of Scotland, and that Parliament would not do that from an English, but rather from a Scottish point of view. All information on the subject went to prove that the people of Scotland looked with disfavour on the system of private patronage which the Bill was meant to remove, and even all the patrons themselves who had spoken on the subject refused to treat their privilege from a money point of view. On the contrary, they had thanked the Government for proposing to take a disagreeable responsibility off their hands, and it was generally acknowledged that this patronage had no marketable value; so that really there was not only no reason why the compensation should be provided for, but the patrons themselves had not asked for it. Any money value that was ever set upon private patronage was taken away by the Act of Lord Aberdeen, which gave congregations the right to object to any minister that a
 839
 MR. VANS AGNEW  appealed to the Lord Advocate to accept the Amendment.
 MR. VANS AGNEW  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 31, to leave out the word "not," the object of which was to provide that the judgment of the sheriff-substitute in the matter should, as in all other cases, be liable to be reviewed by the principal Sheriff.
 MR. HOLLAND  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it has been decided to erect a Lighthouse on the mainland on the north shore of Cardigan Bay?
 MR. MELLOR  said, that the general opinion of those who were most acquainted with the working of collieries was, that the work of inspection, as at present carried on, was a perfect farce. It was costly; it produced no beneficial results; and it ought to be conducted differently. The Motion of the hon. Member for Staleybridge had been rather misunderstood. It was not intended so much to inquire into the cause of the accident at Astley Pit, as to see whether or not the present system of inspection could not be improved; and with reference to it, he believed that, if an inquiry were made, almost all colliers could point out the mode by which these accidents might be prevented. He himself knew a Colliery Inspector who had not been down a particular pit for the last 35 years. How was it possible for Inspectors under such circumstances to be able to know what was the condition of the ventilation of a mine? He sincerely hoped that some change would be effected, and with that view, should support the hon. Gentleman's Motion.
 MR. MELLOR  moved for Returns of all persons in this country and our possessions abroad in receipt of less, and of persons in receipt of more, than £150 in salary, pension, or other emoluments.
 MR. HANKEY  said, he had understood the Prime Minister to promise a statement on this Vote, as to the purchase of a picture to which he (Mr. Hankey) called attention some time ago. He wished now to ask, under what circumstances pictures were bought? Although the Director had a duty to
 818
 MR. HANKEY  said, he was sorry if he was out of Order, as he could not on any other occasion allude to the matter. He hoped that some means would be adopted for stopping the further progress of decay, and in that view would request the Commissioner of Works to take the opinion, during the Recess, of men of taste as to the condition of those pictures.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given a perfectly satisfactory expla-
 798
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY , referring to the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to the Colonial Office, said, that the arrangement proposed would work injuriously to the clerks in the office, who had a right to expect preferment in the order of their appointment. A slur would be cast upon their character, if they were passed over and a gentleman from another Department promoted over their heads.
 MR. SIDEBOTTOM  said, that after the satisfactory assurance of his right hon. Friend, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. SIDEBOTTOM , in rising pursuant to Notice, to call attention to the accident in the Astley Deep Pit Colliery in Dukinfield in April last; and to move—
 "That an humble Address he presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously
 772 773 774 775 776 777 778 779 780
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, the hon. Gentleman was perfectly correct when he said the sum of £7,000 should be charged against revenue. By the Re-solution of the late Government, all new works and all charges of whatever description were to be charged against revenue. That particular Vote, however, had been omitted in the preparation of the Estimates for the current year. It was decided by the late Government that the new works, alterations, and maintenance of Telegraph buildings should be undertaken by the Office of Works, and they made the present estimate; but owing to some misconception, it was not presented in March, and was not included in the charges for the year. The Telegraph account was not now before the Committee; but when the Vote was in the Chairman's hands, he should be happy to give any explanation that might be required.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, the ratepayers would neither lose anything nor would they get next year a larger sum than was promised them this year. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in making his Financial Statement, endeavoured to make it clear that the intention of the Government was, that these additional contributions should be contributions for the financial year ending the 31st of March, 1875. It must be perfectly well known to his right hon. Friend opposite, that the amounts paid during a financial year did not necessarily represent the whole cost of that year. In point of fact, the police and the lunatics, to the expense of whose maintenance the Government intended to contribute, would be chargeable as from the 1st of April, 1874, but the whole of the accounts could not be paid during the financial year which ended on the 31st of March, 1875. The Government would pay as much as they could according to the arrangements of the local bodies. Nine months' accounts would be paid for the metropolis, and six months for the counties and boroughs. Of course, the Government could only ask for the amount which would come in course of payment during the current financial year.
 MR. W. H. SMITH , interposing, said that was not so.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, the only Supplementary Estimate already voted was for the Navy, and it amounted to £150,000. Another Estimate of £170,000 was proposed to the House, but it was withdrawn. That was the Vote which was now under discussion.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, the matter should receive the fullest consideration on the part of the Government, and that any practicable concession that the justice of the case might be found to require, would be granted.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, that undoubtedly in England the whole charge for County Court buildings, whore these were Government property, fell on the Government; but, on the other hand, all fees paid in County Courts wont to the Imperial Exchequer. In Scotland the County Courts were not of the same character as in England. County Courts in England were for purely judicial business. The Courts were Courts of Justice where trials where conducted under the direction of a Judge appointed by the Lord Chancellor. County Courts in Scotland were places where the business of the county was conducted. [Mr. ANDERSON: Sheriff Courts.] The cost is borne in England by the Imperial Exchequer but all the fees are paid in there.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, that the only sum asked for this year for Dover Harbour was £2,050 to pay the salaries of certain officials. That sum had no connection with the harbour works. When the present Government came into office they found a scheme for extending the harbour, which had been approved by the late Government, involving an expenditure of £970,000. The Government did not think it right to adopt so considerable a plan without due consideration. A vote of £10,000 on account had been taken last year, but no portion of it had been expended by the present Government, and the money had been surrendered to the Exchequer. The Government had under its consideration a similar scheme to that of the late Government, and although no decision had been come to, it was very possible some similar measure would be proposed next year. But nothing would be done without giving the House an opportunity of coming to a decision.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, it was the intention of the Government to institute a departmental inquiry, or an inquiry by Committee of the House of Commons, into this subject, as it affected all classes of public servants.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, it was owing to a change in the system of accounts, which had only recently been introduced, and which he thought was a very desirable one. Until that year it had been the custom to charge the amount of the
 829
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, it had been the practice that the sum paid for the acquisition of freehold land for the purpose of the Post Office should be carried to the account of that Department, while the cost of erecting the actual building should be carried to the account of the Office of Works.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  said, the difference in the numbers was chiefly owing to the persons referred to having commuted, and the cost of such commutation had been charged to capital account.
 MR. W. H. SMITH , on behalf of the Government, said, he could not consent to incurring expense for such Returns.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, If he can give the House the names of the three new Charity Commissioners which it is the intention of the Government to appoint?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : May I ask if the Government will not proceed with the third reading of the Bill to-morrow unless the names are given? If the right hon. Gentleman follows precedent, he will give the names before the Bill leaves this House.
 COLONEL MURE  observed that by the law of Scotland any contract that encumbered the income of a clergyman was simoniacal.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  asked the Government to give some further information as to the reasons which induced them to postpone the measures with reference to Law Reform. Those Bills were down on the Paper for that evening, but he supposed it was with the intention of discharging the Orders. Last year a measure was passed by Parliament relating to the Appellate Jurisdiction, which should have come into operation that year. However, not only had they made no progress in law reform that year; but if they discharged these Orders they would be making progress in the fashion of the crab, because they would be going backwards and postponing the action which they had matured last year. No one desired to interpose a single obstacle to the passing of such a measure as would allow the English Act of 1873 to come into operation this year. That Act was very carefully framed, and was only passed after very careful deliberation, and there were Rules to be made in accordance with it. He believed those Rules had been prepared and laid before Her Majesty, and therefore he saw no reason why the Act should not come into operation. He was not surprised that the Government did not proceed with the voluminous Irish Bill in the face of the Irish difficulties; but that Bill was altogether outside the corners of the Act
 789
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT : I understand that the Rules have left the hands of the Judges, and have been placed before the Queen. I want to know whether they can be laid on the Table before the end of the Session?
 MR. WHEELHOUSE  made an appeal to the Postmaster General on behalf of the provincial letter-carriers, whose salaries were very small, and totally inadequate as remuneration for their very laborious duties.
 SIR EDWARD WATKIN  said, before the Vote was taken, the Committee ought to know what the Government were going to do with the money. Here was a large sum of £170,000 to be voted by the House, and yet nothing had been stated as to its disposal. There might be Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side who had made themselves obnoxious and whose constituents would get very
 799 en bloc
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, it was desirable that some one should recall the exact figures. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his Budget speech, estimated that the expenditure on account of local rates would be £1,010,000, and he now found it would be £704,000, leaving a balance of £306,000. Therefore, with that Supplemental Estimate, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was still within a few thousand pounds of his original Estimate; and according to these figures the hon. Member for Hackney was wrong. [Mr. FAWCETT said, he spoke of next year.] They had to do with this; the statement made was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had reduced his estimated surplus to a sum of £50,000; that was not the case, and the estimated surplus still remained. The claims of the railway companies with regard to telegraphs had been known
 807
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, that the counties in England defrayed the expense of the petty session and quarter session buildings.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  cordially agreed in supporting the application. He ventured to hope that time would be given to allow the people of Scotland to express an opinion on the subject. It was desirable to allow patients to remain in poor-houses or at farm-houses, where the mode of treatment was preferable to that in largo asylums.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, there should be a detailed statement of the amounts to be contributed out of the Consolidated Fund to the local rates.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  complained that, as there were three periods for making up the police accounts for the country, Scotland would be a great loser on this occasion.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, England was to be paid in this Vote for four extra days, and why should not Scotland be paid for the 50 days?
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  thought that military officers ought to be exempted from such a tax.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, it would be far better for the Go-
 840
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  asked, if the Amendment was not irregular, in the same way that his own was on Friday night—namely, that it contained a recommendation to the General Assembly? He objected to such an arbitrary power being given to any body.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 6, after "petitioner," to insert—
 "and in making this inquiry the sheriff shall have regard to the amount of teinds already enjoyed by the present patron, and by former patrons under the Acts of 1690 and 1093, which allowed these teinds in compensation for the abolition of patronage, but which patronage was re-established under the Act of the tenth year of Queen Anne, chapter twelve, but without giving up the."
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he should also move the addition of Malta.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he did not object to the Motion, because he did not think the information would in any way be prejudicial to Roman Catholics. But he must say that the hon. Gentleman had chosen those countries where at present persecution was going on under peculiar circumstances. He did not think the object which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate) had in view would be assented to by the people of England, because the regulations which existed in the countries to which the hon. Member's Motion referred were contrary to that principle of freedom and civil and religious liberty which this country greatly valued. The Returns would he of no use as an analogy for any legislation in this country. He wished the Return to be ex-
 832
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the hon. Gentleman had clearly shown that what he wanted was not to have general information on the subject, but sufficient to suit his purpose. He made a Motion just to get what he wanted—information as to the law in those countries in which there at present existed persecution against the Roman Catholic Church. The hon. Member had most reluctantly consented to have that information extended, showing, as he (Sir George Bowyer) thought, for what malignant purposes he wanted the information.
 MR. ERRINGTON  moved the addition to the Resolution of the words "and in the United States of America and in the Dominion of Canada."
 MR. ERRINGTON  hoped the hon. Member for North Warwickshire would state, whether he was prepared to accept the Amendment which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kildare (Mr. Cogan) had placed upon the Paper, and which was to extend the inquiry to the
 831
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Member that, having made his Motion, he could not speak again till the Amendment was moved.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must remind hon. Members that to discuss the provisions of a Bill on the Question for going into Committee of Supply was irregular.
 MR. SPEAKER  ruled that the remarks of the Postmaster General were relevant.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  inquired if the Lord Advocate could inform the Committee what the "rules and regulations "were that were referred to?
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  thought the amended clauses would not meet the case of the parishes with less than 25 communicants, unless they gave instructions to the General Assembly.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, he would refer the House to Dr. Cook's opinion in favour of the proposed change.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  maintained that Parliament should decide on the rules.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  objected to the proposal, on the ground
 842
 SIR HENRY DRUMMOND WOLFF  hoped the Government would not act upon the economic suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of London. The office
 796 précis
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, his only object had been to call the attention of the House to the subject, and he was perfectly satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman. He would withdraw the Resolution.
 SIR JOHN GRAY , in rising to call attention to the Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General upon the Accounts of the Commissioners of Church Temporalities, Ireland, and to move—
 "That it is the opinion of the House, that careful attention should be paid to the Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General upon the Accounts of the Irish Church Temporalities Commission," 770
 SIR JOHN HAY , in rising to call attention to the case of Commander J. P. Cheyne, R.N., and to move—
 "That this House will, upon Monday next, resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an humble Address to Her Majesty praying Her Majesty that She will be graciously pleased to direct that the Pension of £200 a-year awarded to the said John Powles Cheyne be paid to him, in addition to his retired pay, without deduction, for the term of his natural life, and to assure Her Majesty that this House will make good the same," 765 Simoom Simoom 766 s 767 "I shall be glad if the Admiralty can do something for you, in compensation for the loss of the appointment, which appeared at the time the best thing I could do for you. If any application is made to me, I shall he ready to state all I know of your case to the Board of Admiralty." s d
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, if his right hon. Friend the Secretary for War, who sat next the Chancellor of the Exchequer, were consulted, he would be able
 769
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could assure his right hon. and gallant Friend and the House, that the Government exceedingly regretted that the First Lord of the Admiralty and the Secretary to the Admiralty were not present. They were absent on official business at Portsmouth, and the uncertainty attaching to the progress of Public Business in the House rendered it impossible for them to anticipate when the Motion would be reached. Not having himself paid any special attention to the matter, he was unwilling to express any opinion on the merits of the case in the absence of those better acquainted with it, and he therefore hoped the right hon. and gallant Baronet would be satisfied with a promise on the part of the Government, that they would consult the First Lord of the Admiralty, and that the case should receive candid and careful consideration. While the circumstances stated in a case of the kind, relating as it did to a matter of pension, might appear to constitute a strong claim upon the liberality, and even the justice, of the Government, yet those circumstances were often so complicated, and so much affected by the decisions taken in other cases more or loss similar, that it would be rash in any one to pronounce an opinion off-hand. Certainly, the authorities to whom the right hon. and gallant Baronet had referred were such as to render it due to the gallant officer that the case should be carefully considered, and the right hon. and gallant Baronet might rely upon that being done.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest that the hon. Member might not think it necessary to press his Motion, as it would, if acceded to, be inconvenient, and prevent the House proceeding with Supply. Neither did he think it would be for the convenience of the House that he should enter into any detail relative to the ques-
 771
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the appointment had been made, because it was very strongly represented to the Treasury by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, that though the establishment which had been arranged for the Colonial Office was strong enough in the clerical department, the secretariat, and particularly the legal branch of it, was not sufficiently strong for the duties it had to perform. It had also been strongly urged upon the Government that the duties of the office could not be effectually discharged without further assistance. The fact that certain of our colonies were self-governing had in some respects increased, rather than diminished, the amount of correspondence and the difficulty of questions arising between the colonies and the mother-country. It was comparatively simple to arrange questions in which the Crown was supreme, but not so easy when—as in the case of the Dominion of Canada, for instance—the colony had almost the power of an independent State. In such cases assistance of a superior character was required, and an efficient staff was necessary in order to secure despatch and accuracy. Therefore, when the Earl of Carnarvon asked for the extra assistance, the Treasury took into consideration the recent re-organization of the Department, and it occurred to them that the salaries paid to the principal clerks were such that the holders of the offices ought to be able to render such assistance as would make it unnecessary to add to the secretarial staff. The answer was, that the gentlemen likely to fill the offices of principal clerks would not possess the legal qualifications necessary to meet the case. The Treasury, while disappointed at the fact that the re-organization of the Department had not strengthened the office to the degree that was expected, were not prepared to take the responsibility of refusing the assistance which Lord Carnarvon said was necessary; but at the
 794
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The intention of the Government in the proposal made was this—that relief should be given to the local ratepayers from the commencement of the Imperial financial year—the 1st of April, 1874, for a certain amount. That relief would, of course, be given in the form in which the Government subsidies have been always paid. Taking the case of the police as an example, where in former periods we paid one-fourth, we now propose to pay one-half. That one-half will be paid in respect of expenditure incurred by the locality in the year commencing the 1st of April, 1874.
 808 809
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) has put a Question which he would hardly have put had he been a Member of this House at the time the Budget was brought forward, because then he would have remembered that the financial arrangements were founded on the proposals to which the Committee is now asked to give effect. We included in the calculations for the year a certain amount of expenditure for purposes embraced in these Estimates which are called, and which, to a certain extent are, Supplementary; but as far as they relate to the Vote in aid of local contributions for police and lunatics now under consideration, they are not truly Supplementary Estimates, but are part of the regular financial arrangements. Therefore, when the hon. Gentleman says we are asking for a large sum which goes beyond the margin provided for in the Budget, and that he does not see how that large sum is to be found, he is mistaking the character of the arrangements for the year. Now, those hon. Gentlemen who were present when the Financial Statement was made are aware that the Statement was of this character. Certain taxes were remitted and certain arrangements made, and then it was stated that it was the intention of the Government to propose that various sums should be voted in aid of local taxation. These sums were to be applied partly to the expense of the police, partly of pauper lunatics, and partly in the nature of an addition to the contributions made for Government property; and the amount it was proposed to take for these purposes came to £1,010,000. Taking the Revenue and Expenditure as then estimated, and calculating that part of the Expenditure to which I have just referred at £1,010,000, I reckoned there would remain a surplus of £462,000. Of course, if the Revenue falls short, that surplus will not be realized. I have no reason to fear that the Revenue will fall short. At all events, that is a ques-
 800 801 802 bonâ fide 803
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he scarcely understood the question of the hon. Member. The remission of the sugar duties and of the licence duty on horses came into operation at once, and that of the income tax
 830
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that under the old Stamp Duties Act certain duties were charged upon various public appointments, and at the time the last Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was appointed the amount of stamp duties payable in respect of that office was about £200. In 1870, the Stamp Acts were revised and a duty at the rate of 5 per cent upon the salary attached to an office was imposed upon the person who was appointed to the office. That enactment came rather suddenly upon certain classes of appointments. As to the case of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and perhaps he might add that of the Governor General of India, though their nominal salaries were very considerable, yet in point of fact, the amount of remuneration which they actually received was by no means in proportion to the amount of their salaries. It appeared to be an oversight of Parliament, that the full gross salaries in these cases were taken as the units of taxation, and as a practical injustice seemed to be committed in the case of the stamp duty pabable by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, the Government felt that a sum of £800 should be voted to defray the amount of stamp duty which had become payable under the new Stamp Act by the Lord Lieutenant in excess of the amount payable by his Predecessor.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that while he was of opinion that great caution should be exercised in such matters, he thought the House would approve the course which had been taken by the Government in the present instance. In the course of the inquiry of the Royal Commission which had been appointed to examine into the supply of coals, it had been ascertained that there was reason to suppose that a vein of coal which was found in Belgium might probably underlie the Weald of the South-east of England. The Commission therefore recommended that some investigation should be made into the subject. One of the associations had consequently visited Sussex, and a spot was selected at Netherfield, near Battle, for the purpose of proving the question. At that place, boring had taken place, and had been carried on to the depth of 1,000 feet, at a cost of £3,000, provided by
 824
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Treasury had at first promised to grant £250 for the funeral of Dr. Livingtone, that sum having been estimated to cover all expenses. It was afterwards found that a larger amount was required, and in informing the Government of the circumstance, the Geographical Society added that a wealthy merchant in the City offered to make up the difference, but the Treasury felt that to accept the offer would not be in accordance with the wishes of the country.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied that the present proposal was an addition to that grant.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could not give the precise figures, but he was informed that the amount of business that was being done was largely in excess of that done last year, and that there was at present no reason to fear that the estimate which was given to him for the telegraph revenues for this year would not be realized.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the principle on which
 816
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it would be impossible to make the arrangement proposed this year, as it would interfere with the Esti-
 817
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be contained in the elaborate Returns that had been moved for by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that he did not put any adverse construction on the remarks of the hon. Member for Falkirk (Mr. Ramsay). With reference to the first question, the hon. Member had himself supplied the answer. There was no Vote proposed for Scotland in this Estimate, the reason being that his right hon. Friend at the head of the Local Government Board having made inquiries, was informed that the proper and convenient time would be to pay at the period when the Scotch make up their accounts, and that was on the 15th of May, and therefore the sum would not come in the course of payment in the present financial year. There was no question that the Vote would be submitted next year, and that payment would be made on the same principle as in Ireland. Whether there might be a change made in the future as to that time—the time of payment to Scotland—was a subject he could not venture on now. In the present arrangements, which were of a temporary character, they had desired to disturb as little as possible the ordinary course of things as they found them, and they had made their arrangements accordingly. A sum of about £35,000 would, however, have to be provided for Scotland to put it on the same footing as England and Ireland. With regard to distributing the grant in Scotland on a somewhat different principle from that adopted in England, as desired by the hon. Gentleman, the arguments adduced on that point by many of the Scotch Representatives whom he had seen were not without weight, and it might be well worthy of consideration whether in future some different arrangements could not be made regarding it; but for the present year, he was not disposed to encourage the introduction of that system. Anything that they did in that matter involved consequences and laid down precedents of which it was not easy to see the ulti-
 814
 MR. BOORD  said, the question of the taxation of Government property having been decided last year, the hon. Member for Hackney ought not to attempt to re-open the question now. He (Mr. Boord) could assure the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Hankey) that in his borough, the neighbourhood of Government property was a disadvantage rather than au advantage to the locality, the rates being enormously increased by the wear and tear of the roads caused by the transit of heavy guns and materials, by injury to the drains, and by the increase of pauperism consequent upon the number of persons employed in the Government works. He suggested that by taking a percentage on the cost of construction, a basis of assessment might be easily obtained for rating such public property. On a previous occasion, when the question was before the Committee, he understood the Government to have pledged themselves to place the matter on a permanent footing at the first opportunity.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he would have liked to know whether the experiment of the Government was to be confined to the mere apportionment of the grants; because, if so, as far as he could see, the scheme could not be carried out consistently with the curative treatment which had been so successful in Scotland.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  thought they were giving too extensive powers to the General Assembly, and submitted that some security should be given that the right of patronage would be allowed to be exercised by the people.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, such an arrangement would be like the old Popish practice of holding livings  in commendam
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  asked, whether it was true that Dr. Livingstone had been buried at the expense of a wealthy merchant of the City of London?
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, he perceived that the grant included the sum of £300 as a contribution towards illuminating Edinburgh. He should like to know why money for such a purpose was asked for in the case of Edinburgh, any more than in the cases of other large towns?
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  thought that some further explanation should be given in regard to what was exactly intended by the Church of Scotland in this matter. The form of security proposed by the clause was very objectionable.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  suggested that his own Amend-
 844 "And whereas the removal of an ancient cause of controversy may tend to bring about a union between the various Presbyterian Churches of Scotland."
 MR. FORTESCUE HARRISON  asked the Secretary of State for War, If he would explain to the House why the pay and allowances of Instructors of musketry of regiments of Militia sent to Aldershot for the Summer drills have been disallowed for all the days they attended there, except those days on which they were actually engaged in musketry instruction; whether this is not at variance with the engagement under which Officers of Militia went to Hythe
 852
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that with respect to the last Question, the hon. Member would be aware that Musketry Instructors attached to a regiment of the Line had continuous payment, and that they were not in the same position as Instructors of the Militia, who were trained for a special purpose. As to the Instructors at Hythe, they would have the usual allowance—namely, an allowance for each day that they gave instructions.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that he had been in communication with the Lord Great Chamberlain upon the subject of the recent Police Order, and he was sure that the object of the noble Lord had been entirely misunderstood. The Lord Great Chamberlain's sole object was to take care that there should be a sufficient safeguard with reference to visitors, and to give ample facilities for every person to see the House who was entitled to do so he hoped that that night arrangements would be concluded which would be satisfactory both to the officers of the House and to the public at large
 MR. O'CLEBY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Government have received any intimation from the Imperial German Authorities relative to the statement of the "Nord-Deutsche Zeitung," "that the German Squadron now stationed off the Isle of Wight will be ordered to cruise on the northern coast of Spain;" and, should such be the fact, to ask, are the Government prepared to make any statement to the House on the subject?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, his attention had not been called to the prosecution of offences under the Adulteration of Food Act. That matter came under the cognizance of the Local Government Board rather than that of the Home Office he did not think it was competent to the Home Secretary to issue a Circular to magistrates instructing them that they should be specially careful as to the way in which they carried out the Law on this subject as long as that Law existed. He entirely agreed with an Answer which was given by his right hon. Friend the President of the Local Government Board the other night—that it was impossible for the Government to take any steps which would have the effect of restricting the operation of the Law or to introduce a suspensory Bill. But, he trusted that having regard to the Report of the Select Committee who had inquired into this subject this Session the local authorities would be extremely careful in instituting prosecutions on the subject of adulteration of food until an opportunity had been afforded for Legislation.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, read the following telegram which he had received from the Jersey authorities:—
 "Arrest under mesne process exists in Jersey. It is regulated by a Law passed by the States of Jersey on the 3rd January, 1862, and confirmed by an Order of Her Majesty in Council, dated the 21st of March of that year. The creditor before causing' his debtor to be arrested must make before a magistrate an affidavit that the claim is to the best of his belief justly due. The debtor may avoid going to prison by giving bail for his appearance to answer the demand before a proper Court. This process applies to Englishmen in Jersey who may be arrested at
 856
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that he would endeavour this Session to proceed with the Bill giving effect to the Report of the Commission which had investigated the grievances of Army Officers. He was anxious to make a statement on the subject.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that his attention had been called to the case in question, and he had no objection to state what were the views of the Government in relation to the Licensing Act upon the construction of that statute; the 46th section, in order to provide for the change which took place when the Act was passed as to taking the annual value of the beerhouses instead of rating. At the first annual general licensing meeting after the passing of the Act the justices were required to obtain what the value of the premises were, and at that time they might do one of two things—they might either say they were of a certain annual value, or, if not of that annual value, then they might give the person in the occupation of the premises another 12 months, in order to make them of the full annual value. Therefore, by the
 858
 MR. SCOURFIELD  took advantage of the question being raised to read the following opinion from an independent source as to the relative advantages of the Republican and the Monarchical forms of government:—
 "For the quiet and honest government which Queen Victoria has bestowed upon the English
 859 Richmond Whig
 SIR THOMAS CHAMBEES  said, a Motion on the subject of Co-operative Associations had stood in Ms name on the Paper for some time; but considering the advanced period of the Session, he had now deemed it expedient to alter the form of Notice, and instead of proposing a Resolution on the subject he would merely call attention to the inexpediency of associations for trading purposes being established and conducted by employés of the Government under the name of Co-operative Supply Associations. The House was no doubt familiar with this question, which of late had excited a good deal of public interest. At the outset he might observe that all arguments adduced against himself on the ground that he was opposing co-operation were simply beside the mark. He had not a word to say against co-operation. Of course any two or more persons acting together for a common purpose were co-operators; but in reference to the question now under consideration, the word "co-operation" was used to signify the acting together of a number of individuals not only to facilitate the supply of their own wants, but also to supply the wants of others who did not form a portion of the body so co-operating. Under the names of Co-operative Stores and Co-operative Supply Associations there had grown up a regular system of trading which was not distinguishable from ordinary commerce as carried on by limited liability companies or by large partnerships. The
 860 s d s d 861 862 863 864 "The Civil Service Co-operative Society was founded by Mr. Ansell, of the Admiralty, and the benefits it confers on the aristocracy and other classes are most important." 865 s d 866
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he had a Notice on the Paper praying that Her Majesty would withhold Her assent from the proposed changes in the constitution of the University of Dublin. He had also moved for some Returns as to the changes, if any, made in the Tenure, Duties, and Emoluments, of the Professor of the University of Dublin during the present year, and in the absence of those Returns it would be very difficult for him to proceed. He would therefore fix the Motion which he had on the Paper for Monday next.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  was sure that had the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary known that this question was to be raised he would have been in his place; but in his right hon. Friend's unavoidable absence it was desirable not to enter into the matter at length. With regard to the promise which he (Mr. Cross) was supposed to have given he had been careful to reply in the very terms of the Question. He knew that the hon. and learned Gentleman was too great a master of grammar to use the word "or" when he meant "and," and in answering the Question he stated in the hon. and learned Gentleman's own language that an opportunity would be given to the Senate "or "to that House to express an opinion on the Queen's Letter. Like other hon. Members he had an opportunity of consulting the usual sources of information, and he there saw that the Answer he was reported to have given was not in the same form as that in which it appeared on the Notice Paper. He asked some of his Colleagues whether it was necessary to correct the report, and they were of
 873
 MR. LEVESON-GOWER  said, that in giving Notice of the Amendment which he had placed on the Paper, he had been actuated by no wish to impede the Progress of the Bill. He did not dispute the discretion of his right hon. Friend in withdrawing his Amendment under the circumstances; but he wished to urge on the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had charge of the Bill
 875
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that on the previous day the Chancellor of the Exchequer said he would consider the matter very carefully, and intimated that he would make some concession in the direction which had been pointed to. He regretted that his right hon. Friend was not then in his place; but he had no doubt that the matter would receive the fullest consideration from him.
 MR. STEPHEN GAVE  observed that the Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), was in favour of absolute uniformity in each parish, but if there was one thing more than another which would cause the Bill to break down, it would be any attempt under it to establish such uniformity. What he feared was that attempts would be made to render the Bill unpopular by the institution of frivolous proceedings, and he could not but regard the discretion of the Bishop as a security for the satisfactory working of the Bill.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he hoped that the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Russell Gurney) would not assent to this Amendment, than which he could conceive nothing more mischievous. Nothing could be more objectionable than that the Bishop, who was on his own responsibility, and sitting as a  quasi
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he hoped neither the Committee nor his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Russell Gurney) would accept the Amendment. It would be fatal to interfere with the discretion of the Bishop. There was a certain variety allowed in the services of the Church, and he thought that it should be left to the discretion of the Bishop to decide whether a case should proceed.
 MR.HUBBARD (London)  said, he was very much in favour of attaining uniformity; but even if only a qualified trust were placed in the Bishops it would be exceedingly hard to deprive them of all power of resisting injudicious complaints. The great object they ought to have in passing such a Bill as this was to preserve as much deference as they could for the court and authority of the Bishop; otherwise they should be setting up a Pope in England, and of the two dangers he thought the less would be an indiscreet Bishop. For these reasons, and because he supported uniformity, he must oppose the Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought it would be sufficient to strike out the words requiring the Archbishop to give the reason for his decision.
 MR. FOESYTH  agreed that the matter had better be left to the discretion of the Bishop.
 MR. BERESFOED HOPE  moved in line 28 (the Judge shall give not less than 21 days notice to the parties of the time and place at which he will proceed to hear the matter of the said representation), to leave out "21," and insert "28."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought the addition of the words hardly necessary. It was in the power of any Judge to direct that the execution of any order which he might make should be suspended.
 MR. RYDER  moved in page 8, line 9, to leave out "gratuitous," and insert—
 "(if unopposed) for a total of fees not exceeding two guineas (exclusive of stamp duty), and in accordance with a scale recently adopted in the diocese of Canterbury, and approved by the Archbishop of Canterbury on the twenty-eighth day of June, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three."
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  concurred in the Amendment of the right hon. and learned Recorder.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he hoped the Committee would consent to strike out that clause. He could not really see on what principle they could say that the services of the Church were to be performed according to the Rubric, in places which were attended by the old, but not in places which were attended by the young. The chapels might be private to a certain extent; but they were only sanctioned to carry out the worship of the Church of England as established by law.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  contended that, though the clause was left out, there would be no means under the Bill of dealing with the chapels in Universities as with parish churches, which had connected with them archdeacons, churchwardens, and parishioners. The machinery for putting its provisions into operation would, therefore, in the ease of the former be wanting, and if the clause were not retained, some new machinery would have to be established. The University church did not come under the Act of Uniformity, and therefore it must have an exemption, or people would say that the services were not being performed in the authorized way. With respect to the Amendment immediately before the Committee, it seemed to him to be a most reasonable proposal.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, he thought they seemed to be rather running away from what was proposed to be done. It was said that there was no machinery for dealing with this class of cases, but that might be obviated by bringing up a clause on the Report. Under the first sub-section of Clause 8 the offences chargeable related to the introduction of forbidden decorations, and the clause went on to provide for the case of those clergymen who had made, or permitted to be made, any unlawful addition to, alteration of, or omission from the services, rites, and ceremonies enjoined. A clause might be inserted in the Report which would save the University Tests Act.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the Bill contained no reference to the Church Discipline Act, but it would make absolutely now law, and he did not see why the Bishops should not be included. If they infringed the Rubrics he did not see why they should not be brought under the Act.
 MR. FOESYTH  moved the following clause:—
 (Judge not to be a Member of the House of Commons.) "That no Judge appointed under this Act shall be capable of being elected as a Member of or sitting in the House of Commons."
 MR. HUBBARD  moved as an Amendment that, instead of the Act being cited as "The Public Worship Regulation Act, 1874," its short title should be "The Ecclesiastical Causes Procedure Act."
 MR. HUBBARD  then moved the omission of the clause.
 MR. W. EGERTON  submitted that this was a legitimate corollary of the clause that dealt with the question of appeal from the Bishops to the Archbishops.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  moved to amend the clause by adding to it the following words:—
 "The bishop shall, on the receipt of the representation, transmit a copy of the same to the churchwardens of the parish, and the churchwardens shall forthwith cause a copy of such representation to be affixed to the doors of the church or churches of the parish, and shall duly summon the parishioners to a meeting to be held at some time within eight days from the date of the summons, for the purpose of considering-such representation; and the churchwardens shall report to the bishop the proceedings taken at such meeting, mentioning any resolution that may have been proposed, and also, so far as may be practicable, the names of those who voted for or against such resolutions." 881
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  moved, in page 5, line 3, after "opinion," to insert "after considering the whole circumstances of the case."
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  said, that since he had moved the Amendment he had found that apprehensions existed in many quarters that it might be construed as extending further than was intended; and therefore, to prevent a waste of time in fruitless discussion, he was prepared to substitute other words. The purpose which he sought to effect was that when the time came for the Bishop to consider whether he should or should not give his veto to the proceedings, and when he had to deal with complaints which did not relate to any serious question of doctrine stirring up the consciences and feelings of the people concerned—when the question was one only, for example, of a direction set down in the rubric as a matter of convenience, he should be clearly entitled by the words of the Act to take into account all the circumstances of the case, as whether the rubric had become obsolete by the general consent of the people, or had failed to carry out the object with which it had been framed. He therefore proposed, if it met with the wishes of the right hon. and learned Recorder, to withdraw his Amendment as it stood, and substitute for it the words of which he had given Notice as coming in the next clause, and where it was stated that the Bishop would be bound, before he delivered an opinion as to proceeding or not proceeding with a particular case, to consider all the circumstances connected with it.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  said, he hoped the hon. Member would not divide upon this question. The distinction ought to be borne in mind between trivial and grave cases of non-observance or breach of law. There were cases of defiance of the law on the part of those who set up the law of tradition of the Church against the law of the land, which called for interference to compel obedience; but there were many other cases in which the letter of
 879
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  remarked that, not far from that House—in Westminster Abbey—there was a very beautiful reredos, and although it had passed unchallenged for five years, it might, as the clause stood, still be interfered with. He was therefore in favour of the Amendment.
 LORD HENEY SCOTT  moved the substitution of the word "may" for "shall" in the following provision:—"In which case the Bishop shall state in writing the reason for his opinion." It might not be desirable that in all cases the Bishop should put in writing his reasons for acting. In this case, too, he ought to be allowed to exercise his discretion.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he thought that, in accordance with the order in the preface to the Prayer Book, it should be left to the discretion of the Bishop whether he should take the opinion of the Archbishop.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he hoped the Amendment would not be pressed.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he did not want to degrade the Bishops, but if the Bill was to be equal it must apply to all orders of the clergy. The clergy would see the propriety of obedience more clearly if the Bishops were amenable to the same law. He supported the clause.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  questioned the authority of the hon. and learned Gentleman to say that the Bill would be lost if this reasonable clause were accepted. He had no conception that the object of the Bill was to give additional dignity to the Bishops; if it was to place them above the law, he objected to their having any such additional dignity. It was new to him that there was to be a special order of the clergy excepted from the laws applicable to the rest. He hardly thought the right hon. and learned Recorder could be serious in objecting to the substance of the clause because it required Amendment. If the Bill was to be carried it should be in such a form as to be above the suspicion of partiality. If it was to become law, let it be a law for all classes of the clergy. The Bishops were not well served by those who advocated that they should be placed above or permitted to contravene the law.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  appealed to the hon. and gallant Colonel not to press the Amendment. The Bill was drawn not to include matters of doctrine, but of procedure.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, that the Italian mails were about to be sent through France instead of Germany, and Her Majesty's Government were most desirous that a reduction should take place in the postage of the letters. He was in communication with the Italian Post Office authorities on the subject. He was anxious that the reduction should be greater than the Italian Post Office authorities proposed. Hitherto they had not seen their way to the reduction he proposed; but he hoped that before long an agreement would be arrived at for the reduction of the Postage.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE moved the following clause—
 (Proceedings in case of bishops.) "If ten inhabitants of the diocese resident during the preceding twelve months, of whom three at least shall be incumbents, shall be of opinion that the bishop thereof has in any church or burial ground within the diocese (1st) used any unlawful ornament of the minister of the Church, or (2nd) failed to observe the directions contained in the Book of Common Prayer relating to the performances in such church or burial ground of the services, rites, and ceremonies ordered by the said book, or has made any unlawful addition to, alteration of, or omission from such services, rites, and ceremonies, such inhabitants may, if they think fit, represent the same to the Metropolitan by sending
 901 "Such representation shall only relate to matters which have occurred within six months from the date of the sending thereof to the Metropolitan. "The Metropolitan may, if he think fit, within six months after he has received a representation in manner agreed proceed to consider the same in his Provincial Court, in public, with the assistance of the judge of his Provincial Court and two or more bishops of the province, to be chosen in the manner directed in the rules and orders; and the Metropolitan shall, after due consideration, pronounce judgment in regard to such representation, and if the judgment so require shall issue a monition to the Bishop in the form prescribed in Schedule (E) to this Act, admonishing him to refrain from such unlawful acts or omissions. "The persons making the representation, or the bishop, may appeal within twenty-eight days after judgment has been given to her Majesty in Council, and in such case the appeal shall be heard and determined in the same manner as if it had been an appeal from the Court of Appeal of the province. "A copy of such monition shall be sent within twenty-eight days from the date thereof to the bishop; and if, whilst a monition is in force, it be shown to the satisfaction of the Metropolitan in his provincial court, after notice to and hearing of the bishop, that obedience has not been paid to such monition, or to the part thereof (if any) which shall not have been annulled on appeal, the Metropolitan shall thereupon, unless the bishop shall show sufficient cause to the contrary, inflict upon the bishop such ecclesiastical censure or censures as shall he prescribed by the rules and orders. "Provided always, That if the bishop so proceeded against shall be the Archbishop of Canterbury or of York respectively, then the representation shall be made to the Metropolitan of the other province, who shall, if he think fit, proceed to hear the same as hereinbefore provided, with the assistance of the judge of his provincial court, and of two or more bishops of his province." 902
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  assured the Committee he was serious in moving the clause, and he had received widespread encouragement to do so from all parts of the country, and from all classes of the clergy, from the Bishops down-wards. If the Bill was to be complete,
 903
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, the general principle laid down in the Bill was that the worshippers had a right to call their minister to account for deviations unauthorized. But who were the worshippers in a college chapel? Undergraduates  in statu pupillari 898
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have altogether forgotten the University Tests Act passed by the last Parliament, which took college chapels out of the operation of the Act of Uniformity, under which it was now desired to place them. In that Act it was set forth that it should be lawful for any visitor of one of those colleges, on the request of the Governing Body, to authorize from time to time on week days any abridgment or adaptation of the service, instead of that set down in the book of Common Prayer,
 893 A laugh
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  trusted his right hon. and learned Friend the Recorder would not accept this Amendment. The whole object of leaving cases to the discretion of the Bishop was to prevent
 885
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved, in page 5, line 11, to leave out "without appeal," and insert "as hereinafter provided."
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved, that a copy should be sent "to the person complained of."
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved, in page 8, line 16, after "if," to insert "any Bishop be patron of the living proceeded against, or if," the effect of which would be to transfer to the Archbishop in such ease, as well as in the case of a Bishop incapacitated by illness, the discharge of the duties imposed by the Act.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  feared great inconvenience would be occasioned to the clergy if upon every alteration of the fabric of the church, such for instance, as the introduction of an "eagle" for a reading desk, or the substitution of open seats for a pew, a Faculty should be applied for.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved the omission of words which would render it unlawful for the patron to appoint to any benefice the incumbent by whom it was avoided under the Act.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  moved, in line 26, to leave out from "at any," to "province or," in line 27. He trusted that the right hon. and learned Gentleman would accept this Amendment, because as the Bill stood the provincial Judge might try the case at the little village where it happened, or in the metropolis. There was such a thing as having law too cheap; but in this case it would probably cost as much to take the lawyers down as to bring the witnesses up. But it might not only create much scandal to have the trial in the village school or perhaps the village ale-house, but permanently weaken the influence of the clergyman although he escaped unscathed. In all ways it would be a more dignified proceeding to have the trial in London.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  trusted that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment. He thought two years would have been a sufficient time; but like the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. Forsyth), he bowed to the feeling of the Committee, and regarded five years as a fair compromise. He asked the House to leave the present Proviso.
 MR. MACDONALD  said, that this was, he believed, the first effort which had been made to put a stop to the thrift and providence of a large body of the people of London, and he did hope that the House would not countenance the attempt. The hon. and learned Gentleman who brought forward the question, stated that the Civil Service Stores were not conducted on the same principle as that of the Co-operative
 867
 MR. HAYTER , asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he is aware that there is no Office at which Acts of Parliament can be purchased within the precincts of the House of Commons, and if he would request Messrs. Spottis-woode to supply Acts passed by the last and present Parliament to Messrs. Hansard for the use of Members?
 MR. A. MILLS  opposed the Amendment on the grounds that he preferred to regard the Bill as one for the amendment of procedure, and that he wished to see an end put, as far as possible, to the commencement of vexatious and irritating proceedings.
 MR. DISRAELI  gave Notice that on the Report he would bring up a clause to provide for the salary of the Judge.
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, we have received satisfactory communications from the Powers in answer to our Circular, and therefore we have not thought it in our power any longer to refuse to send a delegate to the Conference at Brussels; and subject to those conditions and stipulations with which
 853
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, this is, I believe, the third time the right hon. Gentleman has asked the same Question. I think it is hardly consistent with the custom of the House of Commons, or even with the courtesies of life, to ask the Government repeatedly for information which they have expressed their willingness to give the moment it is in their power to make a communication to the House on the subject.
 MR. CAWLEY  said, the clause would bring the whole question into ridicule if it were passed. There was no machinery in this Bill to deal with Bishops or Archbishops. He protested against its being considered that they were placing Bishops above the law by omitting this clause.
 MR. CAWLEY  pointed out that the definition of a church in the Bill was a place of public worship in which the incumbent was bound to conduct Divine Service according to the Book of Common Prayer; and if it were true that these chapels were not bound so to conduct the service, then the Bill did not touch them at all. If, on the other hand, they were bound to conduct Divine Service according to the Book of Common Prayer, then there should be no exemption.
 MR. CAWLEY  said, he would be sorry to see the discretion of the Bishop absolutely taken away. They should remember, however, that the coming into operation of the Bill had been postponed to enable Convocation to propose a revision of the Rubrics, and, further, that the Bill was not meant to define the law, but to afford facilities for the carrying of it out. He hoped the discretion of the Bishop would be retained in the Bill, but that it would be modified by a provision for an appeal to the Archbishop.
 MR. CAWLEY  said, this was not an appeal to the Court, but a reference of the reasons given by the Bishop to the Archbishop, and this was desirable in the interests of uniformity. The notice, however, should be given "to the person complained of," and he moved the insertion of those words.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  (for Mr. GREGORY), moved in page 6, line 28, at end of clause to add—
 "The Judge may, on application in any case, suspend the execution of such judgment or monition pending an appeal, if he shall think lit,"
 MR. MONK  supported the Amendment, as he thought the Proviso in question was unadvisable and would work unjustly. Some one would have to pay the stamp duty on the Faculty, and it ought to be made clear whom it was intended to make liable to do so.
 MR. MONK  moved, in page 8, line 16, after "bishop," to insert—
 "Shall be patron of the benefice or of any ecclesiastical preferment held by the incumbent against whom a representation shall have been made, or."
 MR. MONK  proposed to leave out the words in page 4—
 "Provided, that no proceedings shall be taken under this Act as regards any alteration in or addition to the fabric of the Church completed live years before the commencement of such proceedings." ab initio
 MR. MONK  moved, in page 9, line 30, after "persons," to insert "one of them being the Lord High Chancellor or the Lord Chief Justice of England."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  objected to the inclusion of the chapels of public schools among the list of exemptions, because it involved the assumption that the services in these chapels were not conducted in accordance with the Book of Common Prayer, and in its present form the clause might be interpreted as leave to depart from the customary mode of conducting public worship.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought if any proceeding were to be taken against any Bishop or Archbishop, it should be instituted by the Crown.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know whether the purport of this clause was that, if there were a repetition of an illegal action, the proceedings might not be renewed? The words in the clause were—
 "Provided, that no judgment so pronounced by the Bishop shall be considered as finally deciding any question of law so that it may not be again raised by other parties."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  pointed out that the giving of a discretion to Bishops was a novelty introduced into the ecclesiastical law in 1840, and though he was not in favour of such law, he could not vote for this Amendment.
 MR. CLARE READ , in reply, said, that the attention of the Board had for a considerable time been drawn to the state of the River Lea; and on the 23rd instant they received a Memorial on the subject, in which the circumstance with regard to the dead fish was referred to. The Board had for many months past been urging upon the sanitary authorities of Tottenham the necessity of completing without delay the works undertaken by them for the deodorization of their sewage, and on the 23rd instant—the same day on which the Memorial was received—the Board were informed by the Tottenham Local Board that the new tanks would be put into work at once, and would be steadily at work from that date. The Local Board also stated that they had settled the preliminary arrangements with a Company for treating the sewage, and they trusted that before many weeks elapsed the process would be in operation.
 MR. BASSETT  asked what constituted a member of the Church of England? They were all members—some conforming, others not conforming.
 MR. GREGORY  moved after Clause 10, to insert the following clause:—
 (Parties may appear in person or by proctor or solicitor.) "In any proceedings under this Act any person, whether complainant or defendant, may appear either by himself in person, or by any proctor or any solicitor of the Supreme Court."
 MR. GREGORY  said, one of the objects of the Bill was to give the Bishops a more ready jurisdiction, and the object of the new clause was to degrade the Bishops. ["No, no."] That would be the effect of it, because it implied that the Bishops themselves were guilty of these practices. He trusted it would not be agreed to.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he was willing to adopt the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 MR. GREGORY  proposed to omit the words requiring the Archbishop to give the reasons for his decision in writing, confirming or annulling the decision of the Bishop.
 MR. FAWCETT  asked, Whether he had correctly understood Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer to mean in his statement last night that the remissions of taxation made in the Budget were to come into operation this year?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Archbishop should only be required to give his reasons when he rejected the appeal.
 MR. CHILDERS  moved, in page 5, line 8, before "person," to insert—
 "Archbishop of the province, who shall decide whether proceedings should or should not be taken thereon. If he shall decide that proceedings should not be taken, he shall, within twenty-one days after receiving the representation, state in writing the reason for his decision, and copies of such statement shall be deposited in the registry of the diocese, and also in the registry of the province. If he shall decide that proceedings should be taken, he shall within twenty-one days after receiving the representation return it to the bishop, who shall transmit the same to the." 882
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had moved the Amendment thinking it would go well with the appeal which the hon. Member for North-East Lancashire intended to propose. To give an appeal whore the Bishop refused to proceed, and to refuse it where he consented, would be a very one-sided appeal. However, he would not press the Amendment.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped the Committee would retain the words in the clause. He was in favour of the principle of the Bill, and anxious as to its working well; but if these words relating to the discretion of the Bishop were taken out, the Bill would become a source of endless litigation and danger to the Church. The object of the Bill, speaking generally, was to enforce the Rubrics usually observed; but at the same time it must be borne in mind that others had fallen into desuetude. For instance, the Rubric provided, as regarded the marriage service, that the first part of it should be performed in the middle of the church, and then the people were to go to the east end. This was not observed in one church in a hundred. It was part of the Rubric that the minister should catechise the children on the Sunday afternoon, but in three out of four parishes that was not done. Again, the clergyman was to receive the names of those who wished to communicate, the day before the administration of the Holy Sacrament; but he should not think that was done in a hundred churches in England. If these Rubrics were to be put into operation, and the Bishop were not allowed to interfere, the result would be anything but that which the promoters of the Bill wished. He thought there was a good deal to be said in favour of allowing an appeal from the Bishop to the Archbishop of the province. Among 27 prelates there must be considerable diversities of opinion.
 MR. BUTT  said, there was no disposition to oppose the progress of the Bill, and, for his part, he was anxious to sea
 907
 MR. BUTT  said, he desired to avail himself of the opportunity of calling attention to the statement made by the Chief Secretary for Ireland in answer to the Question put to him by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue), and of considering a misunderstanding to which it appeared to have given rise. The question of his hon. Friend referred to the Queen's Letter to the University of Dublin, which was laid on the Table of the House on the 1Oth of July, and which unquestionably was of very great importance, inasmuch as it changed the constitution of Trinity College in very essential points, and, if he was correctly informed, it was not at all confined to the carrying out of the Tests Acts. He certainly was under the impression that that Letter would not be issued without a previous discussion by the House upon the subject. On the 23rd of April he asked the Home Secretary—
 "Whether any application has been made by the Board or Fellows of Trinity College, Dublin, for a Queen's Letter, altering essentially the Statutes of the College; and, whether before the issue of any Queen's Letter, an opportunity will be given to the Senate of the University, or to this House, of expressing an opinion upon the proposed alterations?"—[3  Hansard 872
 MR. HOLT  moved an Amendment to the effect that where the Bishop decided that proceedings should not be taken there should be an appeal to the Archbishop. He concurred in thinking that a discretion should be given to the Bishop; but he did not think that he should have an absolute veto on all proceedings. There might be different views taken in different dioceses; but if there was an appeal to the Archbishop, and if the Archbishop acted on the same principle, there would probably be a greater uniformity in the administration of the law.
 MR. HOLT  moved in page 5, line 6, after "diocese," to insert "and a copy thereof shall forthwith be transmitted to the person who shall have made the representation." If the Bishop was bound to give his reasons in writing, there was no reason why they should not be made public.
 MR. HOLT  said, he could not support this Amendment. If the Bishop thought
 883
 MR. HOLT  said, he thought it would be sufficient to strike out the words requiring the Archbishop to give the reasons for his decision.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, that in the case of a disputed ornament or decoration it might be desirable for the Bishop to visit the church. If, on the other hand, some abstract question of law were at issue, it would be cheaper for the parties to have it argued in Westminster Hall instead of bringing counsel down with large retaining fees into the country. It would be better therefore to leave the matter to the discretion of the Archbishop or Bishop.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  thought the safest course would be to insert the words.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, if there was a defect in the language of the clause as was suggested, that defect, so far as concerned the wording of this Bill, applied to every Protestant Church in England, because the Act of Uniformity was in force with reference to a parish church just as much as it was in force with reference to churches and chapels of colleges. In the case of a parish church, the ordinary might give his sanction to the mode of performing the service—in the case of a college church or chapel the visitor had the power of giving directions on that subject.
 MR. DODSON  said, he thought it immaterial whether the clause was retained or not, inasmuch as if it was struck out there would be no machinery for the enforcement of the provisions of the Bill, in so far as the college chapels were concerned. At the same time, for the sake of clearness, he would prefer to see it retained. Perhaps it would be better, under the circumstances, to reserve consideration of the matter till the Report, when they would have an opportunity of dealing again with the machinery.
 MR. DODSON  considered it desirable to adopt the proposition of the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Gregory.)
 MR. DODSON  said, he had not much confidence in the statement of the hon. Member for Berkshire that frivolous cases would not be taken up to the Archbishop. On the contrary, he thought parochial personages who wished to give themselves importance, would not be unwilling to add to their first importance by making an appeal. Still, the Committee had to choose between two difficulties. The objection to allowing appeals to lie to the Archbishops was that they would be placed much in the position of twin Popes; but, on the other hand, Bishops would differ in opinion unless a controlling authority were established, and there would be different uses
 886
 MR.DODSON  said, that the representation would probably be made by several persons; and it would surely be enough that one of these persons should receive a copy of the reasons.
 MR. DODSON  said, he hoped the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Russell Gurney) would not consent to the
 880
 MR. DODSON  proposed that "join in stating" should be substituted for "state."
 MR. JOHN HOLMS  asked the Secretary of the Local Government Board, Whether his attention has been drawn to the pollution of the River Lea at Tottenham by sewage, and to the fact that a large number of dead fish are found lining the edge of the towing-path, producing a state of the atmosphere which is most detrimental to the health of the neighbourhood; and, if so, whether any steps have been taken by the Government to remedy the evil?
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he is able to give the fuller information he promised on the subject of arrest for debt on mesne process in the Channel Islands?
 DR. LUSH  asked the Postmaster General, Whether any means are in contemplation to reduce the rates of Postage between this Country and Italy, the present rate on letters being nearly twice the rate between this Country and France—namely, sixpence per half-ounce, and the rate between Italy and the United States being fivepence halfpenny per half-ounce?
 MR. RAMSAY  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had on the previous day intimated that it was the intention of the Government that the money to be voted in aid of pauper lunatics in asylums in Scotland should be divided according to the same rule as in England. There was very great diversity between the practice of the medical authorities in Scotland and in England with respect to the treatment of lunatics. As it was estimated that £46,000 should be voted in aid of the maintenance of insane paupers, it was very desirable that the money should be distributed in a satisfactory manner. He hoped that when the Vote was brought "forward the Chancellor of the Exchequer would mate a more explicit and definite statement than was made by him on the previous day.
 MR. RAMSAY  expressed a hope that the system of treating pauper lunatics which was being carried out in Scotland would not be interfered with.
 MR. ROEBUCK  suggested that the difficulty might be obviated before it arose by giving an appeal from the decision of the Bishop.
 MR. SERJEANT SIMON  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government have arrived at a final determination as to sending a Representative to the Congress at Brussels; and, if that determination be in the affirmative, whether there is any objection to stating the name of the Representative?
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  differed from the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter), and thought the persons who made the most vexatious and frivolous complaints were the persons most likely to carry on an appeal to any quarter they could find. He trusted the Committee would not, after having consented to allow a discretion to the Bishop, nullify that consent by giving an appeal to the Archbishop, who could not know the circumstances of the parish.
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  denied that the object of those who supported this clause was to defeat the Bill by a side-wind. He believed the Bishops would set an example to those under them of obedience to the law; but if they did not, they would deserve to be brought under the operation of this law just in the same way as any incumbent. The Bill being in its present temperate state, he wished it to become law, and he repudiated the insinuation of the
 905
 MR. WALTER , on the other hand, trusted the hon. Member for North-East Lancashire would stick to the Amendment, and that his right hon. and learned Friend in charge of the Bill would adopt it. The hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. B. Hope) had attempted to answer the arguments of the hon. Member for North-East Lancashire by simply begging the question. The hon. Gentleman said an appeal would be made in all kinds of frivolous cases. Now, that was just the class of cases in which an appeal would not be made. The object of the Amendment was to guard against the possible danger which might arise if a Bishop of very strong opinions chose to ignore a case which he ought to take up.
 MR. WALTER  said, the limitation of powers proposed by his right hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) was not all analogous to that which the hon. Member for North-East Lancashire (Mr. Holt) intended to propose. He might illustrate the matter by what occurred before a bench of magistrates. Many cases were brought forward at Petty Sessions which the magistrates, instead of sending for trial to a higher Court or Quarter Sessions, dismissed. That was an exercise by them of a  veto
 MR. WALTER  reminded the Committee that there was an Amendment on the Paper, to be proposed by an hon. Member opposite (Mr. Holt), which would, if carried, limit the discretion of the Bishop in a manner more becoming than would be obtained by the absolute and unqualified proposal of the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn). While he thought the discretion of the Bishop ought not to be absolute, he regarded the principle of the discretionary power as an important part of the Bill. He could not, therefore, vote for the Amendment under discussion, but should support the latter one to which he had referred, and which would give an appeal to the Archbishop.
 MR. WHITWELL  was surprised at the proposal to add such a clause as this to the Bill. The hon. Member (Mr. B. Hope) did not even establish the Court by which the Bishop was to be tried.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that when during the last 20 years they had done everything to disassociate the Universities from the Church of England, it seemed strange that attempts should be made to bring these chapels, which were strictly private, within the operation of the Bill. At Oxford it had been a vexed question as to the colleges repudiating the jurisdiction of the Bishops. Were they going, by a side-wind, entirely to do away with the charters and foundations of these colleges, and place them under a jurisdiction that at present they were not subject to? This was the great difficulty that he had. He had seen several occasions where the jurisdiction of the Bishop in the University had been successfully resisted;
 899
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he could not see why Bishops should be exempted more than any other of the clergy from the operations of the Bill. The object of the Bill was not to give greater power to the Bishops, but to promote greater uniformity he did not agree with the Bill at all, but could not see why there should be any exemptions.
 MR. DILLWYN  moved the omission of the Schedule, on the ground that it was objectionable to limit the operation of the Bill to a mere section of the community.
 MR. DILLWYN  was still of opinion, notwithstanding what had been said, that the Bishops ought not to be armed with the veto set forth in the clause. He considered that members of the Church of England had a right to something like uniformity of practice, and did not see how it was to be secured unless the Amendment were adopted.
 MR. DILLWYN  moved, in page 5, line 3, to leave out from "Bishop" to "shall," in line 6. The hon. Gentleman said, if they legislated on such a subject, they ought to provide that the law should take the effect designed. One diocese might be under a Ritualistic Bishop, and an adjoining diocese under a Bishop of different views; and supposing that Ritualistic practices were complained of, a Ritualistic Bishop might pass over the complaint.
 MR. DILLWYN  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed with the Regimental Exchanges Bill this Session?
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  pointed out some details of the Bill which he thought objectionable.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  moved the omission of the clause.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would withdraw his Motion. 'He (Sir Michael Hicks-Beach) did not mean to press the opposed clauses of the Bill on the present occasion.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  adverted to want of a proper scale of retiring pensions for the officers and men of the constabulary, and urged the necessity of passing the Bill in reference to them through Committee.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, the salaries of the superior officers were fixed by the Treasury, and therefore were not specified in the Bill.
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  said, he wanted to know what was the reason the right hon. Baronet did not disclose to the Committee what the salaries of the officers of the constabulary were. The Lords of the Treasury, who got £5,000 a-year, had their salaries proclaimed, and why should the public not know what the salaries of the police officers were?
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  said, he should like to know from the right hon. Gentleman what the salaries of those officers were?
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  strongly opposed the clause, and moved that the Chairman do report Progress.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have received no intelligence that a positive decision has been arrived at by the German Government to send a Naval Squadron to cruise off the coast of Spain; but we have reason to believe that the German Government are considering the expediency of ordering
 854
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  objected to the Amendment.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he had no objection to the clause being omitted altogether, but he could not agree to the Amendment.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, it was clear his hon. and learned Friend had not read Lord Macaulay's speech with reference to the exclusion of the Master of the Rolls from a seat in the House. Such a provision would exclude a man like the late Dr. Lushington.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he hardly thought that the hon. Gentleman, in proposing this clause, seriously intended the House to adopt it. So far from contributing to uniformity, it would introduce a system different from that of the Bill, which proceeded on the principle of having a clergyman tried by a Judge. The Bill proceeded on the principle of amending the procedure, and enforcing the provisions of the Church Discipline Act, so far as related to the fabric of the Church and religious worship; but the Bishops were not included in that Act; and therefore the new clause departed from the scope of the Bill. There had been no such complaints of Bishops as would render it necessary to include them, and the clause was drawn in such a way as to suggest that it was not intended to work.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, the only doubt he ever had as to college chapels being included under the operation of the Bill arose from the provisions of the University Tests Act. It appeared however, that the Bill would only apply to cases where the service of the Church of England was required to be performed according to the Book of Common Prayer. It would, therefore, apply to those chapels on Sunday, but not on other days when the shorter services authorized by the University Tests Act were performed. He would withdraw his Amendment, and vote for striking out the clause.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved to leave out Clause 16, and insert the following clause—
 (Provisions relating to cathedral or collegiate church.) "The duties appointed under this Act to be performed by the bishop of the diocese shall in the case of a cathedral or collegiate church be performed by the visitor thereof. "If any complaint shall be made concerning the fabric, ornaments, furniture, or decorations of a cathedral or collegiate church, the person
 900 "If any complaint shall be made concerning the ornaments of the minister in a cathedral or collegiate church, or as to the observance therein of the directions contained in the Book of Common Prayer, relating to the performance of the services, rites, and ceremonies ordered by the said book, or as to any alleged addition to, alteration of, or omission from such services, rites, and ceremonies in such cathedral or collegiate church, the person complained of shall be the clerk in holy orders alleged to have offended in the matter complained of, and the visitor, or the judge, as the case may be, in the event of obedience not being rendered to a monition, shall have the same power as to inhibition, and the preferment held in such cathedral or collegiate church by the person complained of, shall be subject to the same conditions as to avoidance, notice, and lapse, and as to any subsequent appointment, presentation, collation, or nomination thereto, and as to duo provision being made for the performance of the duties of such person as are contained in this Act concerning an incumbent to whom a monition has been issued, and concerning any benefice or other ecclesiastical preferment held by such incumbent."
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he thought the parties ought to have a voice in the matter.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  considered the Amendment a desirable one.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved, in page 10, line 7, after "Durham," to insert as a separate paragraph "the university church of any of the said universities when used by such university."
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he must strongly object to the Amendment. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to forget that this Bill would not come into operation till next February. Five years was, he thought, a very moderate limit in those matters.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  admitted that the giving of a veto to the Bishops was a limitation of the original right of persons to complain of practices which they considered illegal; but he thought the power of veto was justified by the fact that it might at times prevent the commencement of frivolous and vexatious
 877
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he had not the slightest objection to the introduction of such words as those which the right hon. Gentleman wished to substitute for the Amendment before the Committee. His feeling all along had been that the Bishop should exercise a certain discretion, and that could not well be done without he considered all the circumstances of the case.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he could not see that where the Bishop decided that proceedings should be taken there should be any appeal to the Archbishop.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he could not assent to the alteration proposed. He was strongly in favour of the discretion of the Bishop; but he would have some doubt as to the propriety of granting it if the Bishop were not bound to state his reasons in writing as required by the clause.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  considered that the case put by his hon. Friend would be provided for by a paragraph which he proposed to insert at line 20.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved, in line 20, to insert as a new paragraph,—
 "The parties may at any time after the making of a representation to the bishop state any questions arising in such proceedings in a special case signed by a barrister at law for the opinion of the "fudge, and the parties after signing and transmitting the same to the bishop may require it to be transmitted to the Judge for hearing, and the Judge shall hear and determine
 884
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, it was not for him but for the Committee to determine whether the Amendment should be accepted. He should be content to leave the discretion of the Bishop
 887
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he did not wish to drag parties up to London or Westminster against their will; but he had proposed a Proviso which he thought would answer the object of the hon. Member (Mr. Beresford Hope)—namely, in page 5, line 27, to leave out the second "or," and insert "Provided that if the parties consent, the matter of the representation shall be heard in."
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved the omission from the end of the clause of the Proviso that the fees to be paid to the Registrar of the diocese or his deputy for the performance of his duties under the Act should not in any one suit amount to a larger sum than three guineas.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  opposed the Amendment, remarking that the people in the parishes were to be considered as well as the incumbents.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved the omission of the clause. He had provided for the cathedral churches in another part of the Bill.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  pointed out that under the clause as it stood no inconvenience could arise save in cases in which the Bishop directed proceedings to be taken—that was to
 891
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  considered it desirable that the words should be retained.
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  said, there was no objection to the Universities and Colleges being under the Act of Uniformity. The objection of the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge was that the Committee was going to reverse that which Parliament had settled upon a great settlement of a very important question—namely, the admission of persons not members of the Church of England to the colleges in the Universities. The University Tests Act allowed, upon the ground of liberality, to non-members of the Church, with the consent of the Bishops and on the application of the Governing Body, certain shorter services to be used on week days, and to reverse that would be to throw back the legislation of the country instead of advancing it. He objected to omit this clause, unless a proper provision was made for securing that which was intended to be secured by the University Tests Act for the benefit both of Churchmen and non-members of the Church.
 MR. SPENCER WALPOLE  said, that he should be satisfied if they agreed upon the Report to insert a clause that nothing in this Bill should alter or affect the provisions contained in the University Tests Act, or the Act of 1872, with reference to this matter.
 MR. W. H. SMITH , in reply, said, that although he was aware that there was no special Office within the precincts of the House for the sale of Acts of Parliament, he had reason to believe that they might be purchased by Members within those precincts. He would inquire whether further facilities should be given to Members of Parliament for the purchase of Acts.
 MR. ALDERMAK COTTON  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he is aware that firms are still being prosecuted and fined for selling wholesome but common teas, alleged to be adulterated, but which are
 855
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he had merely asked the Question. The late Government had always given the names of Commissioners before Bills were passed through the House, and he should feel it his duty to continue to ask this Question.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, If he can give the House the names of the three new Charity Commissioners which it is the intention of the Government to appoint?
 MR. FORSYTH  expressed his entire concurrence in the remarks made on this subject by his hon. and learned Colleague. He wished the House to clearly understand that those who objected to these Co-operative Stores did so not because they denied the right of the Civil servants to combine to buy things wholesale and sell them retail among themselves, but because the Civil servants had become shopkeepers on a gigantic scale, and were selling not only among themselves, but also to the outside public. It was perfectly well known that these stores were not confined to the Civil servants, but that they were conducted as commercial speculations. He himself knew of a case where £80,000 had been divided among the outside public. Tradesmen very naturally said—"These Civil servants are the servants of the State; their salaries are paid out of the taxes, to which we contribute; and it is unfair that we, who have a hard straggle to live, should be forced into a disadvantageous competition in our own business with those who are paid to do the work of the State." Another objection raised by the tradesmen was that the Civil servants were supposed to devote their whole time and attention to the service of the State, and that it was an injustice to the public to allow them to become clerks, managers, and directors of these associations, where they employed time which properly speaking belonged to the State. Doubtless the practice complained of was not, strictly speaking, illegal; but what the tradesmen contended was, that it was unfair, and they hoped that the Government would not look with favour upon such a wholesale system of shop keeping carried on by those who were in their employment.
 MR. FORSYTH  pointed out that, as the Bill made it unlawful on the part of the incumbent, to fail to observe the directions in the Book of Common Prayer, it would have the effect of overriding the provisions of the University Tests Act.
 MR. FORSYTH  said, that as the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder had promised to bring in a Bill next Session to amend the Act of Uniformity, that would be the time to bring in the Bishops.
 MR. FORSYTH  wished to move an Amendment in the Proviso at the end of Clause 8. That Proviso was to this effect—
 "Provided, that no proceedings shall he taken under this Act as regards any alteration in or addition to the fabric of the church completed five years before the commencement of such proceedings."
 MR. FORSYTH , in deference to the feeling of the Committee, said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. GRANTHAM  said, he thought the trials in all cases should take place in London, as that would be much the cheaper arrangement. When there were special pleas, and barristers were taken into the country, their fees were heavier than in London.
 MR. GRANTHAM  said, he thought that where there was an appeal the judgment or monition ought not be enforced until the appeal was determined, unless the Judge should otherwise order.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he hoped this would not be assented to. The Judge might possibly have to inspect the church.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, it would be undesirable that the party with the longest purse should have the advantage.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he hoped before the Bill was reported that sufficient machinery would be provided for making the decision by arbitration have the same and vital effect as the decision by the Judge.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  opposed the Amendment, but intimated that he would support that of the hon. Member for North-East Lancashire (Mr. Holt). Where a Bishop was of opinion that there had been a violation of the law, the question ought to go before the Judge; but where he decided that proceedings should not be taken, he (Sir William Harcourt) certainly thought there should be an appeal to the Archbishop. A short time ago a Bishop presented a Petition to Convocation, declaring that those who signed it did not consider the decision of Her Majesty in Council to be final. He (Sir William Harcourt) should be dissatisfied to have to bow to the decision of a Bishop who would present such a Petition as that to Convocation.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he hoped the right hon. and learned Recorder, in forming his view of the Amendment, would consider by whom it was supported and by whom it was op-posed. It was opposed by Gentlemen who had conscientiously opposed this Bill from the commencement. He wished to prevent a High Church Bishop deciding one way, and a Low Church Bishop another. The hon. Member for West Kent (Mr. J. G. Talbot) said, the Archbishop would not know the circumstances of each parish; but it was not to be supposed he would go and overrule the Bishop except for a very grave reason. A frivolous objection which had been rejected by the Bishop would be rejected by the Archbishop. It was the well-founded objection which the Archbishop would be required to support against the indiscreet Bishop, if there were one, and the right hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Gladstone) only speculated on there being one. It was only in the case of an indiscreet determination not to enforce the law that the power of appeal was wanted. He therefore hoped the right hon. and learned Recorder would tell them he was able to accept the Amendment.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  moved that the words should be to "some one person" who had made the representation.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment, the principle of which appeared to have been borrowed from the hon. Member for Carlisle (Sir Wilfrid Lawson), inasmuch as, if it were carried, the Bill ought to be entitled the Permissive Prohibitory Conformity Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, he thought the question of the discretion to be exercised by the Bishops was one upon which the Bill might break down in practice. It was absolutely necessary that there should be uniformity of practice in dioceses as well as in parishes; and if one Bishop acted broadly upon one view, and another Bishop acted broadly upon another view, all the evils which Parliament desired to remedy would return. A discretion of this kind was given to the Attorney General by the Act of Victoria 1834–5, whereby it was provided that no proceeding could take place without the sanction of the Attorney General. If it should turn out that the discretion of the Bishop could not be relied upon, the Act might be amended. He agreed, however, in thinking that the experiment embodied in the clause under discussion ought first to be tried.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  hoped the Recorder would not accede to that Amendment. If the alteration in the fabric was illegal, it was not easy to justify the fixing of any limit of time; but if there was to be any, it ought not to be less than five or 10 years.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, five Members had spoken in favour of the clause, and they were among the most distinguished opponents of the Bill. If the clause were carried it was fatal to the Bill. Everybody knew that if this clause were carried the hon. Member who moved it would have achieved the object of all his opposition. [Mr. BERESFORD HOPE: No, no.] Of course, the hon. Member would deny that he wanted to defeat the Bill. Everybody knew the Bill had been introduced
 904
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT , referring to the objection of the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. B. Hope) that the clause would enable undergraduates to call their superiors to order with reference to the mode of conducting Divine Service, said, that objection could be removed by altering the clause so as to enable only the parents of undergraduates to make complaints on that subject.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, that Amendment showed that that clause really ought not to be in the Bill at all. He was glad that the noble Lord the Vice President of the Council had given Notice of an Amendment to strike out all those exemptions. Why should there be those exemptions? If there were any churches in the land in which the law should be more scrupulously observed than in any others, they were the University churches. Then, again, as to the chapels of colleges and halls, why were young men to be brought up in practices of that kind? Why, too, were the Temple Church, and the chapels of Gray's Inn, Lincoln's Inn, and the Rolls to be exempted from the observance of the law? If they wanted to put these practices down in parish churches, surely they ought also to put them down in chapels coming under the Public Schools and the Endowed Schools Acts. He hoped the Vice President of the Council would move his Amendment for expunging that clause altogether.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  maintained that the passage quoted by the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Beresford Hope) with respect to the visitor being entitled to authorize a particular form of service on week days did not prove that the chapels in question had been taken out of the operation of the Act of Uniformity. That, moreover, was not the sort of thing which the present Bill proposed, because it said that all those colleges and chapels without the leave of the visitor might do as they liked. In reply to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. G. Hardy), he might observe that if no machinery were provided in the Bill for putting its provisions into operation in the case of University chapels,
 896 in pari imperio
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the fact that the Magistrates of Salford have directed a revaluation of all the Beer-houses in that town to be made by a surveyor, and directed that the owners of those houses should pay the costs of such survey; and, whether, if so, such a proceeding is in the view of the Government in accordance with the provisions of the Licensing Acts?
 MR. WAIT  said, he hoped the Committee would support the clause. He was sorry to hear the right hon. and learned Recorder suggest that the mover of it was not serious. It was a serious clause, and it was consistent with the principle that the Bill should countenance no exemptions, and that every one, high and low, Church dignitary or simple priest, should be within the scope of the Bill. They protested against the infallibility of a foreign Bishop, and they ought not to proceed on the assumption that English Bishops were infallible. As respected the working clergy, it would be a healing clause, because it would show that the Bill was not aimed at them exclusively.
 MR. WAIT  objected to the retention of the word "gratuitously."
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE (for Sir EDWARD WATKIN) , asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he is now prepared to give an answer to the Question put to him by the hon. Member for Southwark (Colonel Beresford) in reference to the Order of the Lord Chamberlain, whereby the public were to be excluded from free access to the Houses of Parliament?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  wished to say a few words as to the weakness of the grounds on which grants of this description were supported. It was not his intention to divide the House against the Bill unless hon. Members wished to take the sense of the House on the subject; but if any hon. Members wished to do so they should have his vote. Until the Act of last year, the Crown, in addressing Parliament, had generally stated that it was debarred by the law in force from making provision for the younger children; but owing to the measure which allowed the Crown to possess private estates, which were not included in the estates surrendered at the commencement of the reign "without reserve," and another Act, providing for the secrecy of the wills of the Crown, it could not now be asserted that the Crown did not possess property out of which provisions of this kind could be made. He only wished to put that on record.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  wished to remark that he believed the people of Scotland were anxious that the system now in operation with regard to pauper lunatics in that country should be maintained.
 MR. MOWBRAY  would appeal to the right hon. and learned Recorder to let the clause stand as it was. The phraseology of Clause 8 had nothing whatever to do with college chapels.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. and learned Member had called his attention to this subject in a tone and manner which certainly demanded attention, and of which no one, whatever might be his private opinions, had any right to complain. He had made a very temperate statement, and had so commended the question to the attention of the House. But it ought to be borne in mind that
 868 869 870 871
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied in the affirmative.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to correct a statement which he had made in reply to the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Sir John Gray) on the subject of the Irish Temporalities Commission. He spoke of their latest Report as being the first
 857
 COLONEL MAKINS  moved, in page 11, line 4, after "England," to insert—
 "and that I have been baptised and confirmed in the same, and that I sincerely believe the doctrines contained in the Book of Common Prayer."
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, it was surely most important that obedience to the law should be specially insisted upon in the great educational institutions of the country. The youth who were educated in them should be subject to the same law in this respect as prevailed in parish churches or chapels—namely, the Act of Uniformity. Who should complain of breaches of the law, and to whom those complaints should be addressed were only matters of detail, and could easily be arranged before the Report; but the question raised by the clause was clearly of the gravest importance; the matter would not stand as it did before the passing of this Bill; but this special exemption of the school and college chapels would probably be held to convey somewhat of a sanction from the Legislature to the introduction and continuance of practices and ceremonies in these chapels which were condemned in Parish churches.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, he did not think the point raised by the hon. Member for Cambridge University was a very important one. The University Tests Act provided that there might be abridgments in the services; but it did not provide that the law of the Church should be broken generally. The effect of this clause would be very wide and very serious, and he hoped the Committee would carefully consider before passing it. He must not only protest against any additions to the exemptions already contained in the Bill as it came down to them from "another place": but he must beg the House to examine well these exemptions themselves; and later, in accordance with the Notice he had placed on the Paper, he should ask the House to get rid of
 894 895
 MR. YOUNG , as a friend of the Bill, would be sorry to do anything to impede its progress, but he would feel bound to protest against any proposal to make the public pay the expense of carrying it out. The idea that this salary should come out of the Consolidated Fund was not shadowed forth during the discussions on the Bill, which was one of a sectarian character, and therefore the sect—the Church of England—should provide the salary.
 MR. YOUNG  hoped that his hon. Friend would persist in his Motion to report Progress. The Bill was purely a sectarian matter, and the Committee had refused to make it any other, there-fore no money ought to come out of the Consolidated Fund for the purposes of the Bill. If the security was so good as represented, why did not the right hon. Gentleman offer it in some other quarter, instead of drawing upon the Consolidated Fund? Why did not the Church accept the security itself?
 MR. MONCKTON  cordially supported the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman below him, and asked the hon. Member not to press his Amendment to a division. If the salary of the Judge were not paid out of the Consolidated Fund, there was no fund out of which that salary could properly be paid.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) was mistaken in supposing that Wales was not included in the Bill. The salary of the Judge must be paid out of some fund. If it could not be paid out of the funds of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners—a proceeding which had been strongly objected to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich—or out of the Consolidated Fund, then he could see no source out of which it could be paid, except out of that universal refuge of the destitute, an annual bazaar.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, there were no funds of the Irish Church out of which the salary of the Judge could be paid, and if there were, he should decidedly object to such a course being-taken.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, that people naturally asked what were the circumstances which suggested the introduction of a Bill of that importance at so late a period of the Session? His own opinion was, that the Secretary of State for India had been influenced by the extraordinary facts disclosed in the Correspondence which, about the time of the second reading of the Bill in the House of Lords, was laid upon the Table. That Correspondence disclosed numerous cases of grave omissions in the execution of designed works, and in carrying out the orders of the superior authority, nearly amounting to contumacy. The House was well aware that the Civil Service expenditure in India had been brought within proper control; but they also knew that by no process of arrangement had they been able to keep the Public Works Department in that order which they all desired to see. It was admitted that that was the weak point of their administration in India; and now more than ever, because that Department had to deal not merely with surplus Revenue—always a small sum—but with vast sums raised on loan nominally for works which were expected to prove productive, but which unfortunately were generally productive of no-thing but disappointment. It was obvious that no Government could go on laying burdens on the Revenue, without having any idea whence the interest on those burdens was to be derived. The question, then, was, how far the Bill now before the House would correct these evils? He agreed with what fell from the late Governor of Bombay (Sir Seymour Fitzgerald), that if it were proposed by the Bill to nominate an additional member of the Council, simply as an addition to the strength of the administrative Department, then it would be productive of great good; but, on the contrary, if he were a purely professional
 949
 MR. FORTESCUE HARRISON : The Bill now before the House has for its object the creation of an additional member of the Governor General's Council. This new member is to be charged with the entire control of the public works there, and so strengthen that Council in its now weakest part. To those who, like myself, have an intimate personal knowledge of India, it was scarcely needed to refer to the Returns which have been laid on the Table of the House. I allude to the Returns showing the large expenditure over original Estimates incurred in the construction of public works in that country. Those discrepancies are chronic, and have supplied food for amusing local gossip for many years past. To the minds of all thinking men, they are a scandal which reflects discredit on our system of government, and constitute an act of gross injustice to the people who are forced to provide the funds for these monuments of extravagant incompetence. The enormous demand which must be made in the immediate future for the construction of public works in India will, beyond all question, seriously affect her finances, but not less will those works, if carried out, as I hope they will be, conduce to the welfare of the population, and the general prosperity of the country. The effect of the appointment of a Member of the Council charged with
 950 951 952
 MR. GRANT DUFF  hoped he might be allowed to express his regret that the hon. Gentleman (Sir Seymour Fitzgerald) had introduced the subject of Government House at Poonah without giving Notice of his intention to do so.
 MR. GRANT DUFF : We have wandered over a very wide field, and I have more than once during the discussion felt inclined to say in the words of an English classic—" Sorry to interrupt so much learning, but I think I've heard all that before." I should like, Sir, in a very few sentences, to recall the attention of the House to the not very large question which is legitimately before us—the question whether we should or should not delay this Bill. I do not think we should. I have no prejudice in its favour. It is unlike two other Indian measures which have passed this year—no child of the late, it is the child of the present, Government. It is no part of my business to defend that Government, but we should be fair, even to our adversaries. The Government, after all, are our fellow creatures, and it really does seem to me too hard upon them to blame them—as they have been blamed in the course of this discussion—because the debate in "another place" only occupied two columns of the morning papers. Why, if that proves anything, it surely only proves that noble and learned persons in "another place "saw no particular harm in the Bill. Then, again, objection has been taken to our proceeding with its consideration, because the Secretary of State spoke of it in "another place" as a Bill of much importance, while the Under Secretary has spoken of it here as a Bill of minor importance. That is no valid objection, for, in truth, both statements were perfectly accurate. The Bill, as introduced in "another place," contained a clause of the most discreditable character. I wish to express no opinion for or against that clause; but I do say that it involved most serious issues, and that we might well have discussed it for a couple of evenings. That clause, however, has disappeared. It is no part of the Bill before us, which has shrunk through its disappearance to very moderate dimensions. Again, a great deal has been made of the figure of 40,000,000, which occurred in the speech of the Secretary of State, as given in a morning paper.
 941 primâfacie 942
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERLALD  hoped that the House would permit him to offer some explanation in reference to his views upon the Bill. When it was originally introduced into the House of Lords, it was of a much more extensive character than it now was; for now it only provided for the increase of the Governor General's Council. It came to them, however, as being a Bill of very great importance, because it might impose a vast burden upon Indian finances, now so little able to bear the burden, and also because it would largely affect the relations of the Governor General to his Council. Upon both these grounds, he thought that the Bill was one of the most important that could be brought under the consideration of the House. He did not, however, think that they could entertain the Amendment which had been placed before them. The Secretary of State for India was responsible to Parliament for the administration of India, and it
 943 944 945 personnel personnel 946 947
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in moving that the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of the Bill be read and discharged, said, when he brought it in the hon. Member for Stirling Burghs (Mr. Campbell Bannerman) requested that he (Mr. G. Hardy) would give the House an opportunity of fully discussing it. He thought at the time it was his duty to do so; but unfortunately a week had elapsed without his having been able to find any such opportunity; and now he would state what course he proposed to adopt with reference to the measure. He saw on the Paper an Amendment by the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Anderson) to the effect that it was inexpedient, especially at that late period of the Session, to take into consideration a Bill which appeared to be a first step in overturning the Army legislation of last Parliament. Perhaps, the hon. Gentleman would permit him to say that he (Mr. G. Hardy) was not in any way interfering with the question of purchase, and if he did not think this was a totally different question, he would not have brought in the Bill. The matter had been forced upon his consideration by the Report of the Commission which had recently sat, and which recommended that they should revert to the old system of exchanges which existed before the late alteration. That alteration had been made by Royal Warrant, and it was in his power also to alter the new arrangement by Royal Warrant, if he thought proper. But if he were to do so, he should do what he thought a very unreasonable thing.
 956
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY  supported the proposition of the Prime Minister, as he considered that the fees now paid to certain officials whose offices would be abolished would be more than sufficient to recoup the moneys paid out of the Consolidated Fund.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, it had come down from the House of Lords, and had been waiting a second reading for some time, during which interval it had been subjected to much criticism and misrepresentation. The Bill proposed that in the Council of the Governor General for India, there should be one Member responsible for the Public Works Department. The Council of the Governor General consisted at present of five ordinary and one extraordinary members. One represented the Finance Department, another the Legislative, a third the Military; the Foreign Department was usually under the personal super-vision of the Viceroy; and the two civil members of the Council had to divide between them the Homo Department, the new Department of Commerce and Agriculture, and the Public Works Department, the consequence being, that the most hardly worked members of the Council had to discharge the duties of the Public Works Department. Each Department of State had a Secretary, and these Secretaries were in the habit of attending the Council when important business had to be transacted in relation to their Departments; but they had no vote, and, except on sufferance no voice. The Public Works Department was one which required very minute supervision. The first question the House would ask was, whether the business transacted by this Department was of such importance as to justify the Secretary of State for India in bringing forward this Bill? That could be best answered by stating the actual amount of the financial transactions in which that Department had, for the year 1873–4 been involved. It amounted, in income and expenditure, to
 919 920 921 "This step is in my opinion indispensable. I am now discharging with great labour, the duties of the Member in Council in charge of the Public Works Department, I am very strong and can work 12 hours a day; but I have seen enough to know that the Member in charge of what is now becoming almost the most important Department in the Government ought to be able to devote his whole time and thoughts there-to-ought to have much special knowledge, and, moreover, should from time to time visit, with the Secretary to the Government, the various great works in progress." "The Public Works Department is now the most important branch of our administration and will grow. It requires besides the Secretariat, the undivided attention of one man in Council." The Times, 922 "No condemnation can be too severe for a system, according to the ordinary routine of which it is possible for a project to be submitted with all the parade of detailed elaboration and of no less than 23 sheets of plans, for an expenditure thereon of 3½ lacs to be authorized on the assumption that the annual return would be at least 9, and might be 20 per cent. and for the project to be, after an interval of three or four years, abandoned on account of its containing inherent defects that would inevitably cause the result of its continued prosecution to be, instead of high profit, heavy loss, yet not abandoned without more than £11,000 being expended subsequently to the detection of these glaring and fatal defects. For that this is no exceptional case is clear from the fact of my having, within the last few months, found myself called upon to animadvert on similar heedlessness in the preparation of irrigation projects, in three several instances—those of the Moota Valley, the Madras Water Supply, and the Orissa Works, with regard to each of which confident promises of signal financial success were at first held out, and of which one has already proved and the other two threaten to prove, and long to continue, signal financial failures. There must plainly be something radically wrong in a system under which such results are of such frequent occurrence, and I must desire your Excellency's Government to give to the subject your immediate and most serious attention, with a view to the application of a proportionately radical remedy. Recent disclosures are, I confess, causing me to contemplate with no small apprehension the possible consequences of the large extension of works of irrigation on which the Indian Government is engaged, and of the wisdom of which I had previously entertained no doubt. Several irrigation schemes on a gigantic scale are already in process of execution, and many more are in preparation, which, it was sanguinely hoped, would benefit the people of India, not more by their direct influence in agriculture than indirectly by causing a largely-augmented flow into the national Exchequer; but, unless very much more thought has in general been bestowed upon them than those specially adverted to above would seem to have received, it is only too probable that the 30 millions sterling which have been provisionally accepted as the amount in round numbers required within the current decade for the extension of irrigation, may eventually prove to have been expended, not in diminution, but in augmentation, of the National Debt of India." "At the time that the Madras Waterworks project was brought forward, there was no one whose special duty it was to examine completely its several bearings, and to take care that
 923 "I had previously been under the impression that the special duty referred to devolved in all cases not on one person only, but on a whole series of authorities; on the superintending or other engineer, in the first instance, by whom the project was prepared; then on the chief engineer and secretary by whom it was placed before the Government; and finally, on all the Members of the Government individually and collectively. If this has not always been the custom, I trust that it has now become so." "That a particular duty devolved upon 'a whole series of authorities 'including' all the Members of the Government individually and collectively' is to say that it did not devolve specially upon any one of those authorities." The Pioneer, 924 "But," said that journal, "after all, good may come out of evil: for when the famine has passed away, he may he able to give his attention to the Public Works Department, and that is what we want." The Times 925 rôle "No Department in India had been characterized by so much waste and extravagance as the Public Works Department, and nothing-had contributed so much to that result as the impulsiveness with which Public Works had been undertaken, and the suddenness with which they had been abandoned in order to obtain a favourable balance of expenditure and revenue."—[3  Hansard, "Each man, in his own sphere, should be definitely responsible, and it should not be like the game of hunt-the-slipper, in which the responsibility was shifted about so that no one could find it."—[ Ibid. "Nothing had been advanced in the debate with which he concurred more cordially than he did in the concluding remarks of the right hon.
 926 Ibid
 MR. MACDONALD  asked whether, if a sum should be required by any body of Dissenters, the Committee would grant it out of the Consolidated Fund? To be consistent, he maintained they ought.
 MR. MACDONALD  respectfully thought the right hon. Gentleman might at once inform the House whether the money was really to come out of the Consolidated Fund or not.
 MR. DISRAELI : I will now state what the proposal of the Government is. It will, of course, be more minutely entered into when the clause I have to move is before the House. We propose that for a limited period, not exceeding three years, a sum not exceeding £3,000 a-year should be charged on the Consolidated Fund for the payment of the salary of this Judge; and, at the same time, that certain sources of supply which will arise from fees and from the extinction of offices now existing, shall be paid to the credit of the Consolidated Fund. Our object is, to secure at the present moment a salary for the Judge, and that a certain time should be allowed in order to make those arrangements which are in contemplation, by which the office will be made self-sustaining. We have thought it expedient to secure that important result by a proposal that for a limited period, not exceeding three years, there should be charged an annual sum not exceeding
 911
 MR. DISRAELI  pointed out that there would be two opportunities of considering the subject, if the Resolution, which was only the foundation of a Bill, was agreed to, and that therefore the hon. Gentleman could not be taken by surprise. It would have to be considered in Committee, and again on the bringing up of the Report. The House would not be at all pledged to that particular mode of providing the salary of the Judge by allowing the Resolution to pass, while they would do much to forward Public Business at this late period of the Session. The present proceeding was one of the salutary Forms of the House, and he hoped his hon.
 912
 MR. DISRAELI : On the general question of this Bill—introduced to the consideration of the House by my noble Friend the Under Secretary of State for India in so complete a manner, and with ability so distinguished, that it has been recognized on both sides of the House—I have very little to say, except that I hope there will be no division upon the second reading. Vast sums have been expended upon public works in India, and the unsatisfactory manner in which those vast sums have been expended has produced a very general opinion that some protection is requisite. I will only say that the last letter I received from Lord Mayo was upon this subject, to which, indeed, he had often adverted in his correspondence. And there was nothing upon which Lord Mayo insisted as more important and necessary to the administration of India than an appointment of this kind. One or two remarks have been made to which I should like to advert. The first was made by the hon. Member for Hackney, who treated the Bill as a slight upon Lord North-brook, who, he said, had passed through a great crisis with credit and distinction. I am perfectly aware of the conduct of Lord Northbrook during the trying crisis he has had to encounter; but when I come to consider the amount of support received by Lord Northbrook during that trying occasion, I do not think that the present Secretary of State for India can be looked upon as one who has been deficient in that respect. He has, on the contrary, on every occasion given that support to Lord Northbrook, which a person holding his high position was enabled to give with great
 953 954
 MR. DISRAELI : I hope the hon. Gentleman will not persist with his Motion. It is not easy to give an explanation until we get into Committee; but, as I am on my legs, I may state that it is necessary to carry this Resolution in order that I should bring in a clause with reference to the salary of the Judge. I will then give all the information for which the hon. Gentleman asks, and that is the legitimate opportunity for discussing the question. It will be brought forward when the House is full, and when the hon. Gentleman will have ample opportunity of raising any objection to it. It is a Form, and a wise Form, of the House, that all these proposals should originate in Committee; but it is not usual to discuss them at this stage. The arrangement is not of the simple character which the hon. Gentleman anticipates; but it would be more convenient to postpone the discussion of it until I have had an opportunity of explaining it to the House.
 MR. HERMON  considered that there was no objection to the proposal of the Prime Minister, as the money to be advanced would be recouped. As a Church-man, he thought that all those expenses should be borne by the property of the Church.
 MR. SERJEANT SPINKS  could not understand on what grounds the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman was objected to. He would not express any opinion as to the source out of which the salary of the Judge should be paid, but he thought the House ought to agree to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman that means should be provided to pay the salary of the Judge and to defray the expenses of carrying out this measure. If the Motion for reporting Progress were carried, the House would to-morrow be in precisely the same position as it was now—that was to say, no progress would have been made on this question of providing for the payment of the Judge's salary. The Amendment of the hon. Gentleman was evidently made for the mere purpose of delaying
 917
 MR. ANDERSON  who had an Amendment on the Paper to move—
 "That it is inexpedient, especially at this late period of the Session, to take into consideration a Bill which appears to he a first step in over-turning the Army Legislation of last Parliament," 957
 MR. FAWCETT , in moving, as an Amendment—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it would he inexpedient to proceed with this Bill until the opinion of the Governor General of India in reference to it has been ascertained and laid upon the Table of the House," 928 929 930 931 932 933
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he wished to take that opportunity of making a personal explanation to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Horsham (Sir Seymour Fitzgerald), with reference to a statement which he (Mr. Fawcett) made last year in the discussion of the Indian Budget. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think his name had been hardly used. The circumstances were those—when he alluded to the expenditure of the money in question, he mentioned no names, because in discus-sing such a subject he thought it was better not to do so. He was, however, challenged on the point, and then he mentioned, not the right hon. Gentleman's name, but that of his predecessor, as the person who was Governor of Bombay when the expenditure commenced. An hon. Gentleman, however, soon after came down to the House, and said that the right hon. Gentleman's Predecessor was not in Bombay during any portion of the time that the expenditure was made. Of course, he (Mr. Fawcett) accepted
 955
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  contended that the proposition of the Government that the payment of the salary of the Judge should be secured out of the Consolidated Fund, on the condition that fees to be received in the carrying out of this Bill should provide a fund for that payment, could not be fairly controverted. The Judge who would be appointed under the Bill would discharge by far the largest share of the legal business at present done by persons occupying the positions of Ecclesiastical Judges, and therefore it appeared to him that the proper source from which to take the salary was the income at present applied to the maintenance of Ecclesiastical Courts. The Bill proposed to do that gradually. When they were appointing a new Judge, they must, before their arrangements were perfect, guarantee him an income, and in adopting the ultimate course of throwing it upon this particular fund, they were resorting to the natural and legitimate source from which the Court should be supported. What was proposed was not an absolute grant but a temporary loan, and with regard to the question of principle, raised by those who objected to Church endowment, money had been advanced to persons of every form of religion, for the building of glebe houses, and if the money was ultimately repaid he could not see that any sacrifice of principle, even for those who held such views, was involved in the matter.
 MR. RAMSAY  said, the difficulty he had to deal with in connection with this question was, that he did not remember on any previous occasion on which he was asked, even for a temporary purpose, to vote money from the Consolidated Fund to support the national Church. He objected to such a proposal, and therefore thought they ought to report Progress.
 MR. DILLWYN  explained, that he did not intend to insinuate that the Prime Minister had taken the House by surprise.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, the scheme proposed by the right hon. Gentleman was altogether new, and of such a character as to require some little time for consideration. He (Mr. Dillwyn) might not have objected to a payment out of the Consolidated Fund, if the Public-Worship Regulation Bill had not limited the definition of "parishioners" so as to make the word mean none but members of the Church of England; but that being so, he objected altogether to throwing the payment of the Judge on the Consolidated Fund in any shape whatever, or for however temporary and limited a period. The Public Worship Regulation Bill was a Bill passed for the purposes of the members of the Church of England, and they ought to bear the expense of carrying its provisions into operation. He should, in order to allow time to consider the question before the House committed itself to any proposition whatever, and in order that the scheme might be presented in black and white, move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. DILLWYN  hoped that it was not supposed that he was attempting to throw any obstacles in the way of the Government, from a desire to obstruct the work of the Session. He much regretted that he could not withdraw his Motion.
 MR. DILLWYN  regretted extremely that he should be obliged to divide the House upon that question; but he felt bound to do so in order to prevent an objectionable principle being adopted.
 MR. DILLWYN , in moving the adjournment of the debate, said, he hoped that they would have an explanation of the proposition of the Government. It was intended to found on the Resolution to be proposed, or another, a clause relative to the salary of the Judge, and it would appear that the Judge was to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. That was a course to which he strongly objected. The Judge must be a member of the Church of England, and he was to be appointed by the Archbishops; and further, as the Bill itself was one purely for Church purposes, it appeared to him that the funds necessary for the carrying out of its provisions should come from the coffers of the Church itself, and not from those of the nation. He maintained that the Bill was a Church Bill, for in Committee he desired that Dissenters should be allowed to make representations to the Bishop of certain practices in the Church, and that was refused. He had no desire to impede Public Business; but he felt that this Bill involved so wide a question that it deserved that time should be given for its consideration. He would, therefore, move the adjournment of the Debate.
 MR. SMOLLETT , in seconding the Amendment, said, he wished to point out that the Bill enabled the Crown to nominate the Minister of Public Works in India, who would have a seat in the Cabinet of the Viceroy, with a salary of £8,000 a-year. This officer would relieve the Governor General of important duties; but it did not appear that the great official in question desired relief, for he did not seem to believe that in the multitude of counsellors there was safety. The Bill came before them under peculiar circumstances, because it was neither desired by Lord Northbrook, nor had the measure been approved by the Council of India, who had not been consulted as to the expediency of the change. If the Indian Council had approved of the Bill, it would have better deserved the attention of Parliament. The reason alleged for the introduction of the Bill was, that enormous sums had for the last 10 or 15 years been spent on works of irrigation in India, undertakings which it was supposed would be remunerative, but which it was now found were productive only of loss. Instances had been given in "another place" of great losses sustained in the Madras Water Supply, the Orissa Works, and, no doubt, the Orissa Works—an old ac-quaintance of his—must stand the Government in a large sum, while the Jumna Canal and the Punjab Eastern Canal had been spoken of as huge adventures not paying anything like the interest on the cost of their construction. A list of miscellaneous works had been furnished in a public Return, the construction of which had been estimated
 934 935 936 937 938 "Those works, though they had conferred great advantage on India, were, commercially speaking, not profitable. Many of them did not yield the interest of the money borrowed for their creation." Then, with regard to irrigation works, he said "A happy superstition had prevailed for the last 10 years in England and India, that it was only necessary for the Government to lay down such works to produce immense profits to the State, and magnificent returns to the people. But this delusion had been dissipated by the stern and inexorable logic of facts." 939
 MR. MUNTZ  said, although the sum might be small, a large principle was involved in this question. If the salary
 915
 MR. SALT  said, he did not think it would much matter, if they were told that by-and-by the Consolidated Fund would be recouped. He had been assured by a high authority that the sums to be put to the credit of the Consolidated Fund would be sufficient to cover the salary of the Judge; but on inquiring into the matter, he had found there was some mystery as to the sources from which those sums were to be obtained. If that point was cleared up satisfactorily, there could be no objection to making the charge in the first instance upon the Consolidated Fund. He thought, however, it was doubtful, if the salary was once fixed upon the Consolidated Fund for two or three years, whether it would ever be taken off again.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  moved the Resolution relating to the salary of the Judge and officers to be appointed under the Bill.
 MR. FORSYTH  confessed that he would prefer that the money wanted should not come out of the Consolidated Fund, but should come out of the Bishops' incomes, as they would be saved great expense in not having to maintain lawsuits; and besides, to a certain extent, the Bishops were responsible for the state in which the Church was at present. But the Resolution before them would not bind the House, and time for further discussion would be afforded thereafter. He protested against the use of the word "sectarian" in reference to the Church of
 914
 MR. MASSEY  pointed out that the present proceeding was merely preliminary, to enable the Government to make a certain proposition, and that the proper time to discuss the matter would be when that proposition was made.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  trusted his hon. Friend would not press the Motion, and that the House would be allowed to go into Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  regretted that the right hon. and learned Recorder had withdrawn the proposal to charge the costs of the Court to the funds of the Church. That proposal was perfectly sound in principle, and he (Sir William Harcourt) had failed for his part to feel the weight of the objections urged against it. It had been stated that the fees paid to various Ecclesiastical Courts would soon recoup any expenditure connected with the appointment of the Judge, therefore the proposal now made by the right hon. Gentleman was very different from what they had been led to expect. He had always desired that the Bill should be a means of reconciling Nonconformists to the Church, rather than of increasing the differences already existing; but knowing how strong was the feeling on the part of Dissenters with regard to anything which bore the shape of an additional endowment, he feared they would not view with favour the proposed payment from the Consolidated Fund. The Church could well spare the amount which was required, and he hoped the proposal which the right hon. and learned Recorder had withdrawn would be revived on the Report.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  seconded the Motion.
 SIR CHARLES FORSTER  also objected to any payment necessary under the Bill coming out of the Consolidated Fund. It ought to come out of the fund
 913
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, he would suggest that the salary should be guaranteed by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners; and to meet the objection that they had no fund for the purpose, he would propose that they should borrow from the Public Works Commissioners a sum, to be repaid from fees, &c., that would eventually come into their hands, and were expected to be sufficient to meet the expense. It would be better they should borrow a small sum, say, £9,000, at 3 per cent.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, that while he coincided generally with the views of the last speaker, he could not believe it to be wise or expedient that any member of the Council should have the independent power which the Bill gave to the new Minister of Public Works. The Governor General ought to be able to look into every administrative Department. So far from the Council of the Governor General being increased, he would rather see it reduced, and definite duties and responsibilities imposed upon every member of that Council. The Board of Works had been exceedingly ill managed. The Governor General had specially administered that Department himself, and its failure financially and professionally would not have been so long concealed,
 948
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, he was not surprised that the right hon. Gentleman had moved in the matter, which was forced upon him by the Report of the Royal Commission; but in his opinion, neither the Royal Commission nor the right hon. Gentleman himself had fully realized the question before them when they attempted to re-introduce the system of exchanges. The right hon. Gentleman had referred to certain payments being allowed, payments for change of uniform and for necessary expenses of the journey. But he believed to re-introduce any other payments would be to revive many of the evils of the purchase system, which the House of Commons a few years ago was very strongly of opinion should be put an end to.
 SIR JOHN HAY , as one of the Public Works Loan Commissioners, objected to the salary of the Judge being paid by that body. He, however, believed there was no doubt that the fees and other funds which would be receivable under this Bill would be ample to pay the salary of the Judge. He believed that the country was anxious to see this measure put into operation, and he supported the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought hon. Gentlemen had lost sight of the exact position of the question at that moment. What the Committee were asked to decide was not, whether £3,000 or £9,000, or any sum whatever should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. The question which was put to the Committee was, whether his right hon. Friend should be put in a position to make a proposal on a future occasion for the consideration of the House. The Committee had power to say how they considered that salary should be paid; but when the Bill came before the House on a future occasion, the House would be able to take a different view of the matter. The proposition that the salary should be paid out of the funds of the Irish Church struck him as a proposition to add insult to injury. However, all the suggestions which had boon made as to the source out of which the salary should be paid could be submitted to the House when the Bill was under consideration. The carrying of the Motion to report Progress would have the effect of postponing the consideration of the Report of the Bill until Monday, whereas it was desirable and was intended that the Report should be considered on Friday next. All that the Government now asked was, that they should be enabled to make a proposition in regular form so that the Report might be considered on Friday next. It had been said, and he could not understand why, that that proposal was of a sectarian character, and that the measure was framed entirely for the purposes of the Church of England, and that therefore the Church of England should bear, in some shape or other, the expenses of the machinery which it contemplated.
 916
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought that the more convenient course would be to allow the Speaker to leave the Chair. When the House was in Committee a proposal would be made; and if it was thought desirable to discuss that proposal, it would be in the power of hon. Members to do so. His right hon. Friend at the head of the Government gave Notice last night, that he would bring in a clause with reference to the salary of the Judge; and when that clause was before the House there would be ample opportunity of discussing it on its merits.
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  said, that that was not a Government Bill, and it might be well to postpone the question until the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder of London should be present. But the Bill related to the national Church, and he considered that as the funds of the Church were national, so the nation ought to provide for these expenses. The nation employed a certain number of Bishops and clergy to carry on a war against sin and immorality, and they used national funds for those purposes. The Bill might be considered as nothing more than an Ecclesiastical Mutiny Bill, for it was to regulate the discipline of the clergy.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in moving the adoption of several new Standing Orders, stated that he did so in fulfilment of a pledge which he gave to the House some time ago. They had been
 964
 MR. KAY-SHUTTLEWORTH  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for thus keeping an important part of the pledge which he had given in the debate on his Motion, and observed that the only cause for regret was that
 965
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, that this was a subject of considerable importance, and he hoped it would be deferred till next Session.
 MR. GRIEYE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has decided whether any contribution will be made towards the Harbour Police in Burghs in Scotland?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, the object of the contribution made by the Treasury under the 66th section of the Police (Scotland) Act, 21  Vict
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, it was true that the medical officers attached to the regiments, whether senior or junior, received 3 s
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that having already answered the Question on the 13th and again on the 27th of this month, he was surprised at the hon. and gallant Member asking
 972
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Under the provisions of the Chelsea Bridge Amendment Act of 1858 an exemption from the payment of toll exists on Sundays, Easter Monday, Whit-Monday, and Christmas Day, and knowing how largely the people avail themselves of this privilege, I have applied to the Treasury in order to obtain their sanction to extending this exemption from
 975
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, On what grounds it has been recommended to the Lord Chancellor to add three magistrates to the Rochester City Bench; if he is aware that the late Lord Chancellor declined to appoint any because sixteen acting magistrates (including the ex officio members) were alleged by him to be more than sufficient to attend to the business; and, whether any previous communication on the subject was made to the Mayor and Corporation of the City?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS,  in reply, said, he had communicated with his noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor on the subject, and found that he had appointed the three magistrates in question to the Bench because he believed they were persons who were highly eligible for the office, and because he learnt that two magistrates out of 13 were unable to attend from ill-health; while there were two vacancies from death. His noble and learned Friend had no information with respect to the late Lord Chancellor having declined to make any appointments. If, he might add, the Question had been put with a view to show that there was any political bias with reference to the Rochester Bench, he would only say that out of the 13 magistrates, nine belonged to the Liberal party.
 MR. SULLIVAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he will be able to fulfil the hope held out by him early in the Session, that the recently suspended yearly grant towards the expenses of translating important Gaelic Manuscripts in Ireland might be resumed?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he understood from the Secretary that the Commission had not concluded its labours. It had, however, taken a considerable amount of evidence, which would be in his hands, he hoped, tomorrow, and it might be laid on the Table of the House immediately. He had also ascertained that the Commissioners had adjourned for some time—he could not say how long—and that their intention was to finish their inquiry so that they might be laid on the Table of the House at the commencement of next Session.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I am not aware.
 MR. SULLIVAN  remarked that had the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) spoken of this measure in an even less kindly spirit his (Mr. Sullivan's) hon. Friends and himself would have replied to him only in a most considerate and respectful manner. The right hon. Gentleman had demonstrated the unwisdom of the course pursued by the Government, for he had stated that the present was the most inconvenient time to raise the question. Well, but who had raised
 991 992 993 The Manchester Guardian
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, that although there had been a great deal of discussion on these Acts, yet it appeared to him that the real object for which they were maintained had not been placed before the House. Almost every hon. Member who had spoken had stated that there was no country in the world, considering the extent of its population, which was so free from ordinary crime as Ireland. He (the O'Donoghue) would
 994 995
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the ordinary course was to take the clauses before the Schedule.
 MR. SULLIVAN  moved that the Chairman do report Progress for the purpose of enabling the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government to express an opinion upon the important suggestion made by the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir Eardley Wilmot.) He also conceived it extremely desirable that Progress should be reported in order
 1011
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, in answer to the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt), he believed it would be possible on a Motion to that effect to postpone the new clauses until after the Schedule, but there was no precedent to postpone the clauses in the Bill until after the Schedule. Of course, it was customary to postpone some clauses of a Bill until other clauses had been disposed of.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-QUER  said, I believe my Amendment will come first. I propose in line 17 to leave out all the words after the word "until" down to the word "Schedule" in the next line, for the purpose of inserting "the 31st day of December, 1875." That is in accordance with the statement I made early in the evening that the Government do not desire to carry this practice of continuing important laws by a mere Continuance Bill further than it has hitherto been carried, but rather to restrict it, and on proper occasions at a future time to bring laws which are of importance more directly and conveniently under the notice of the House. But, on the present occasion, what the Government hold to be the most convenient course is not to distinguish between one of those Acts and another, whether they may be Coercion Acts, as they are called, or Election Petition Acts, to which my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Londonderry (Mr. C. E. Lewis) referred, or the various other Acts of the Schedule, as that might lead to discussion; but we propose that the various Acts should be continued for what appears to be a convenient time. The hon. and learned Member will see that in the course of next Session it will be necessary for the Government to bring in a Bill to continue such laws as are necessary to be continued, because otherwise they will cease absolutely with the end of next year. If the House fixes the 31st of December next year as the date on which the operation of the Acts shall cease, it will give a fair breathing space in case of any unforeseen events occurring; and it must be obvious that if my Amendment is passed the question of continuing the Acts will have to be considered next Session, and then the date can be discussed and determined in a full and temperate manner. There is no wish on the part of the Government to deal unfairly in reference to this matter. We feel the inconvenience of the system of continuing laws in what is called an omnibus Bill, and I have drawn my proposal deliberately, believing that it will deal fairly with the question.
 THE CHAIRMAN  informed the hon. Member that the Amendment could not be moved until the Question was put, that the clause be added to the Bill.
 MR. MACARTNEY  protested against the language and tone adopted by the last speaker.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, that when the principle contended for had been conceded, it was almost childish for the Government to haggle about the little difference of time involved in the question now under consideration. If they would not yield on so trifling a point, upon their own heads would rest the blame of discussions which Irish Members were anxious to avoid.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he must remind the Committee that it would be necessary to obtain an Instruction from the House before going into Committee, in order to make changes in a Bill outside its general scope and character. He was, therefore, of opinion—and he had taken occasion to fortify himself by the highest authority he could obtain on the matter—that it would be outside the purview of the Bill now before the Committee to propose to make it, under the semblance of a continuing Bill, a Bill for abridging or amending the provisions of the Acts it professed to continue. The effect of the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick would be to bring to a summary and immediate conclusion provisions which, if this Bill did not pass, would continue to exist some time longer. It was quite open to the Committee to say whether they intended to continue any Act, and how much, of, it; but he was of opinion that it was beyond the province of the Committee on this Bill to introduce into it any such Amendment as the hon. and learned Member for Limerick proposed to make. As to amending the Acts contained in the Schedule, he should have thought there was no doubt, for this Bill was not to amend, but to continue the Acts. He was of opinion that none of the Amendments of the hon. and learned Member were in Order, and therefore they could not be put.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, it would be open to the hon. and learned Member to move a new clause on the Report.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, there would be a practical difficulty in dealing in strict form with the Schedule if the Acts were taken singly. It would be more convenient if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would strike out the 5th column.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, that he and those who sat around him had certainly understood the Chancellor of the Ex-
 1020
 MR. SULLIVAN  observed that the views now held by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Taunton, were the opposite of those he expressed on the Endowed Schools Bill.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that it would.
 MR. SULLIVAN  remarked, that whenever a minority availed themselves of the Forms of the House they were accused of factiousness. He did not know what the correspondence of the present Premier would reveal about these measures, but he found that Lord Palmerston wrote on one occasion—
 "You see by what spanking majorities this Reformed House of Commons is passing the most violent Bill ever carried into law. Few Governments could establish such a system of coercion as that which the free chosen Representatives of the people are placing in the hands of the Government of this country."
 MR. SULLIVAN  maintained that the Act in question was vexatious and unnecessary.
 MR. SULLIVAN  remarked that it was difficult to keep the back benches on the Opposition side of the House in order; and, for his own part, he wished to be completely disassociated from any reflections which had been cast upon the Prime Minister, whose conduct not only throughout that debate, but throughout the Session, had entitled him to the kindliest regard and respect from all parts of the House.
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL , in reply, said, that no reports had been received of the character alluded to. No doubts existed as to the shooting of the Martini-Henry rifle being superior to that of the Snider and Enfield. The Council of the National Rifle Association had permitted competitors to use handkerchiefs around the stocks when firing with small-bore rifles, but this practice was not confined to the Martini-Henry rifle, and the rule had been in force for some years. As many as 140,000 Martini-Henry rifles had been manufactured. They were of the same pattern as those used at Wimbledon, and, as to length of butts, the proportion at Wimbledon was 100 long and 20 short, which proportion was given at the request of the Association. The proportion to the Army was one-third long and two-thirds short butts. He begged leave to remind the hon. Member that the Martini-Henry rifle was adopted after a long series of experiments, and trials by the troops at home and abroad. It was favourably reported upon by the Hythe Committee and also by the Council of Ordnance. The Report of the Committee had been laid Before Parliament, and no reports had been received as to the defects of the Martini-Henry rifle, except in very minor details, which were now in process of being remedied. Therefore, there was no intention of stopping the manufacture of the Martini-Henry rifles. He might add that as far as his right hon. Friend and himself were concerned, they had no bias in regard to the Martini-Henry rifle. It was a legacy left to them by the late Government, and as such he was sure the hon. Member would see it would not be advisable to arrive at any conclusion on its merits merely upon reports which might appear in the newspapers.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What stops Her Majesty's Government intend to take to give effect to the recommendations of the Select Committee on Consular Chaplaincies?
 COLONEL LEARMONTH  asked the Secretary of State for War, If it is his intention to make any alteration in the Army Medical Warrant of the 1st March 1873?
 COLONEL LEARMONTH  asked the Secretary of State for War, If it is true that the payment of the three junior Medical Officers attached to the three Regiments engaged on the recent expedition on the Gold Coast, is only to be at the rate of three shillings a-day extra, while the Medical Officers on the Staff and those in the Navy received respectively, the former double pay, the latter £1 extra?
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, however mistaken hon. Members might think the
 1008
 MR. MUNDELLA , who had given Notice of an Amendment that this Bill should not be further proceeded with till the names of the new Commissioners were given to the House, said he would not persevere with it after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. He was gratified at the appointment of Canon Robinson; but he feared they had sustained a great loss in the appointment of the other two Commissioners.
 MR. MUNDELLA  wished to know whether it was not true that the Commission stood adjourned to November next?
 MR. MUNDELLA  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is prepared to lay on the Table of the House the Report of the Commission on the Labour Laws, with the evidence taken before it?
 MR. DISRAELI : We will bring the Bill on as early as we can; but it is impossible to tie ourselves to any particular time.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish, Sir, to inform the House of the names of the gentlemen who have been appointed to the vacant post of Endowed Schools Commissioners, and I hope I may be allowed to do so without waiting for the Order of the Day for the Third Beading of the Bill, lest I should be precluded from entering into any debate if it should occur. The additional Charity Commissioner is Mr. Longley, at present Chief Inspector of the Local Government Board in the Metropolitan District. The two Endowment Commissioners are—first of all, Canon Robinson, member of the former Commission, who will, therefore, be able to afford to the new Commission all that experience by which he is distinguished; and the second Commissioner is Lord Clinton, formerly, as Mr. Trefusis, a Member of the House, who has served Her Majesty as Under Secretary of State for India, and was one of the University Commission. As I am on my legs, perhaps I may be allowed to refer to a personal matter—not personal to myself, but to my noble Friend the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education (Viscount Sandon). A very precise statement has been made, visiting my noble Friend with what is called the responsibility of having devised and drawn up the Endowed Schools Acts Amendment Bill. There is not the slightest foundation for that statement. The Endowed Schools Bill was a Government measure; it was prepared by the Cabinet; the Cabinet are responsible for it, and they are not disposed to shrink from that responsibility. My noble Friend brought it forward at my desire as the organ of the Government, and on the principle which influences me in the management of the Business of this House—namely, that of giving the rising generation of statesmen every legitimate opportunity of distinguishing themselves.
 MR. DISRAELI : The Chancellor of the Exchequer has expressed the views of the Government upon this subject. He has an Amendment on the Paper in accordance with the opinion he has expressed, and I am perfectly ready to support him in that proposition.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am always in favour of fair and honest discussion, and much opposed to the idea which might prevail from these debates that the Irish Members are a very ill-used body of men. I know they insist upon it that they are so. As I understand the complaint of the hon. Member, it is that in consequence of the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, they have been prevented from moving the Amendments which it was their intention to propose. I am quite certain that whatever may be its effect, the statement of my right hon. Friend was a sincere one, and if it was misunderstood it is very much to be regretted, because it has led to a very violent feeling. The hon. and gallant Member for Galway (Captain Nolan) stated that he was prepared to enter, and was entering, into a vexatious opposition, and therefore the hon. Member who has just addressed us is scarcely justified in saying that we are improperly imputing faction to Irish Members. But what is the grievance of the hon. and gallant Member with regard to that phrase of my right hon. Friend? Upon referring to the Paper, I find that the Amendment of which the hon. and gallant Member gave Notice was placed upon it a week before the Chancellor of the Exchequer made any of those observations to which he has referred. So much for
 1023
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. and learned Member has spoken like one who is proud, and justly proud, of being a Member of this House. There has been some complaint made that Irish Members, when Irish measures are brought forward, are not afforded an opportunity for full and free debate. Hon. Gentlemen opposite have chosen to consider the present a measure of that kind, and certainly they cannot complain of the conduct of the Government in this instance. We have given them the whole day from the commencement of Public Business, and have not in any way interfered with the exercise of their Parliamentary privileges. If the Committee should conclude its labours tonight, I will take care that to-morrow evening at 9 o'clock, we shall commence the Report, and that will give hon. Members an ample opportunity of bringing Amendments forward.
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to make one practical remark to the hon. and learned Gentleman. He seemed to think there was but an infinitesimal necessity for the Government to have the time on the importance of which they were now insisting. He believed that since he had sat in Parliament there had been no fewer than 10 November Sessions, and the hon. and learned Gentleman would, therefore, see there was great importance in having the additional time.
 MR. DISRAELI : At this period of the Session it is very considerate on the part of the hon. Member not to read his Question at length. My attention has been called to the pamphlet published by the Lord Justice of Appeal and to other documents; but it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to recommend the issue of a Royal Commission before the introduction of another Judicature Bill relating to Ireland, because we believe that we have now all the necessary information in our possession.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the Resolution to postpone for the present the Irish Judicature Bill has been arrived at so recently in consequence of unavoidable circumstances, that the Government have not had the opportunity of considering the course they would pursue with regard to the vacant judicial offices in Ireland; but it is a subject which will engage our immediate attention.
 MR. FAY,  as the Representative of a constituency in the North of Ireland, repudiated the assertion that discord was growing among the various classes of the people there. When these Acts were first passed, there was a deadly feud between Protestants and Catholics; but that feeling had gradually decreased, and now the peace and harmony which prevailed showed that no coercive measures were needed. He might add, to show how little prevalent crime was in Ireland, that the number of persons convicted for offences of all kinds in his own county (Cavan) in 1872 was only 61, out of a population of 150,000. What county in England, he asked, could present a comparatively favourable return?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he hoped that on a point of Order a proposition which had been ruled to be, and was manifestly, out of Order, would not be further discussed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that what was asked was that the Government should supersede the Forms of the House. Hon. Members ought to have applied to the Speaker, who would have informed them whether their Amendments were in Order; and they could gain nothing by bringing themselves into collision with the Forms of the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  opposed the Motion.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  said, that the statement of the hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland might be directly tested by the application of legal principles, and he maintained that this legislation was plainly legislating for 1876. Why should they not accept the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick? If the Government did not intend that the words objected to should have effect, why retain them? The Prime Minister had promised that these Acts should be taken into consideration; but it was impossible that there could be in 1876 any circumstances to plead more strongly in favour of their repeal than the Reports of the Judges on the present state of Ireland, the absence of crime, and the generally satisfactory condition of the country. If those circumstances were insufficient to induce the Government to repeal these Acts, what circumstances would occur next year to induce them to take that course? It was not for Irish Members on his side of the House to assert that the Irish Government had pressed these provisions unduly. That was not the issue they took. They regarded these Acts as unconstitutional, and they objected to their continuance in an Expiring Laws Continuance Bill.
 MR. SERJEANT SHERLOCK  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to make any appointment to the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland; and, if so, whether such appointment will be made before the resumption of legal business in November next?
 MR. M'LAREN  asked the Government, Whether they would consent not to take the Church Patronage (Scotland) Bill after half-past 11 o'clock to-night? On the last occasion it was proceeded with between half-past 12 and half-past 3 o'clock in the morning, and many hon. Gentlemen were incapable of remaining in the House until that late hour.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether, having regard to the circumstances under which Admiral Randolph was acquitted by Court Martial, in relation to the grounding of the "Niobe" and "Narcissus," they will reconsider the case of Admiral Eardley Wilmot, who (together with Admiral Wellesley, Commanding in Chief), was removed from his post of second in command of the Channel Squadron, 1871, without such inquiry; and, whether he will recognize the claims of Admiral Wilmot after forty-five years' service to be again appointed to a command?
 MR. SYNAN  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that they would not gain anything by reporting Progress. The proper course would be to recommit the Bill.
 MR. SYNAN  said, their object was to secure the recommital of the Bill, for they had been disarmed by the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that they could make Amendments in Committee. They were not offering factious opposition.
 MR. ANDERSON  asked the Secretary of State for War, If he has heard reports condemnatory of the Martini-Henry rifles used at Wimbledon as being erratic in their shooting, and inferior to the Snider, and characterizing the weapon as "a miserable malformation;" if it be the fact that the Council issued an order permitting competitors to wind handkerchiefs round the stocks to mitigate the contusions on the cheek of the marksman caused by the kick of the rifle; how many have been manufactured, and what proportion of them are of the same pattern and length of stock as those issued at Wimbledon; and, whether he will not stop the expenditure of public money on these rifles till a more perfect pattern has been attained?
 MR. BRYAN  said, he hoped that the Motion to report Progress would not be pressed. What the Chancellor of the Exchequer meant was precisely what he had just said. The Irish Members had a perfect remedy on the Report, and he hoped they would not descend to any seeming factiousness.
 MR. HUNT , in reply, said, the 45 years of good and faithful service by
 973
 MR. FAWCETT  asked the right honourable Member for Horsham, Whether he intends to move, in Committee on the India Councils Bill, the Amendments which he suggested in his speech on the Bill yesterday afternoon?
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had correctly represented the purport of what he said on Saturday. He did not see the use of reporting Progress, and hon. Members could do all they desired to do when the Report was brought up.
 MR. RAIKES  moved several Amendments in the Standing Orders, with reference to Drainage and Enclosure Acts. He stated that at present, in any Drain-ago or Enclosure Bill, it was necessary to obtain in writing the consent of all the owners of property in the parish. This was attended with considerable inconvenience, and be proposed to amend the Standing Orders by providing that only the consent of those who had property within the area affected should be required.
 MR. RICHARD  asked the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the British Consul at Carthagena has transmitted to the Foreign Office any reclamations from British subjects whose property has been destroyed in that city during the civil war; and, whether the Government has made any representations to the Spanish Government with
 976
 MR. BUTT,  who had given Notice of an Amendment, complained that two Irish Coercion Acts had been included in the General Continuance Bill, contrary to precedent, and without affording any fair opportunity of considering the propriety of their discontinuance or modification. There was no necessity for calling upon the House to discuss this matter at the present time, for, if the Bill should not be passed, the Acts mentioned in it would nevertheless continue in force till the end of the Session of 1875. It seemed as if it was intended to enact these coercion measures perpetually, and this being the case, it was the duty of Members to press for such Amendments as they considered necessary. He brought forward his Amend-
 980 981
 MR. BUTT  asked whether they could not postpone Clause 2, and also the new clauses, until after the Schedules had been disposed of? If this were not done they might waste time in discussing clauses referring to Acts which it might be decided afterwards should not be continued.
 MR. BUTT  said, his object would be perfectly attained by postponing the new clauses. He had no wish to protract the discussion unreasonably. Perhaps, when they came to the Amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer something might occur which would prevent the new clauses from being proceeded with.
 MR. BUTT  said, the principle for which he and those who thought with him had been contending was conceded by the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, and he hoped the House had seen the last attempt to deal with questions of the gravest importance in a mere Continuance Bill. The difference between them and the Government was now reduced to a very narrow one, and he hoped that Government would see their way to fixing a date earlier than the 31st of December, 1875, for the expiry of the Bill, so as not to mar the grace of their concession by throwing into it a little bitterness and causing the people of Ireland to feel that in parting with these Acts the Government was hugging and desiring to retain them to the very last moment. If the suggestion of the hon. Member for Warwickshire (Sir Eardley Wilmot) were adopted, there would be no further occasion for opposition on the part of the Irish Members.
 MR. BUTT  said, that as he understood the decision of the Chairman, they could not move any Amendment of the Act so far as it was the law to the end of the next Session, but that they might move Amendments to affect its action subsequent to that date.
 MR. BUTT  proposed to move an Amendment in the shape of a new clause.
 MR. BUTT  moved, at end of second section, to add the following Proviso:—
 "Provided always, and be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act section two of the Act mentioned in the second column of the Schedule to this Act as eleventh and twelfth Victoria, chapter eighty-nine, shall he and the same is here by repealed; and nothing contained in the said Act, or any Act continuing or amending the same, shall authorise or empower any constable or other person to enter or remain in any dwelling house, house or place otherwise than he might have done if said Act had not been passed."
 MR. BUTT  remarked that the Government treated the extension of time from the 1st of October to the 31st of December as a small matter, but it was not a small matter from the point of view of the opponents of the Bill. He confessed it was with great reluctance that he acceded even to October.
 MR. BUTT  said, he thought Continuance Acts were bad enough, but it would be monstrous if the right hon. and learned Gentleman's assertion was correct. In the Peace Preservation Act Continuance Bill of last year, he moved several Amendments.
 MR. BUTT  moved the omission from the Schedule of "11 and 12 Vict. cap. 89."
 MR. BUTT  said, the Irish Members would give up the opportunity which they had of discussing the various Acts in question if an assurance were given that they should not be opposed in recommitting the Bill and moving an Instruction to the Committee. He was not afraid of the word "factious," and was prepared to be factious, if to be so were to protect the rights of a minority against the proceedings of a tyrant majority. One thing he altogether denied—namely, that the Chairman of Committees or the Speaker was the judge of a point of Order. The House, and not its President, was the ultimate judge of Order.
 MR. BUTT  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Cavan would not persevere with his Motion. It would not only impede the Business of the House, but would bring discredit and disgrace on the proceedings which some Irish Members thought it their duty to take. He was always prepared to resist any attempt on the part of the majority to overbear the rights of the minority, and to use the Privileges of the House for that purpose; but he thought that was the only case in which a minority was justified in resisting the majority of the House. He believed that the Irish people would endorse what he said. [Major O'GORMAN: No, no!] They would, he believed, better consult the dignity of the House and the interests of Ireland by proceeding with the Bill—a course which would give him an opportunity of moving his Amendments—than by further seeking to impede the progress of the Bill.
 MR. BUTT  moved in page 2, line 15, to leave out in column one, "2 and 3 Victoria, c. 74, Societies Unlawful, Ireland," and all the corresponding entries in the other columns. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, this Bill was
 1026
 MR. BUTT  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BUTT  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been directed to the fact that the warrants issued by the Lord Lieutenant, authorising a domiciliary search for
 966
 MR. GRIEVE  asked, What has boon decided upon in regard to the contribution towards Parochial Lunatic Asylums in Scotland?
 MR. GRIEVE  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he has finally considered and decided whether the Treasury intend to put the Out-door Officers of Customs on the same footing as the Clerks as to back pay; and, whether he will sanction the same pay being given to the subordinate Out-door Officers at the chief outports as paid to Officers
 968
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  pointed out that the Act in question was framed against secret societies formed for unlawful purposes, such as the purchase and distribution of arms, and the assembling for treasonable and seditious objects. He therefore trusted that the hon. and learned Member would withdraw his Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  contended that no change could be made in a Continuance Act which would alter the status of any Act so continued.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  complained that the hon. and learned Gentleman was using his influence to make those Members of the House who were not lawyers believe, that if the Continuance Bill were agreed to, the statutes which were called in
 982 983
 MR. DODSON  asked whether it was worth while for the Government to have a discussion on so small a difference as that between the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Downing). The change which the Government proposed should be made in this Bill was satisfactory as far as it went, because in a Constitutional point of view it was not desirable that Acts should, in a lump, be kept alive by
 1015
 MR. DODSON  would suggest to the Government that, as regarded the two Irish Acts, they should be contented with the insertion of the words," the 1st of October "—["No, no," from the Ministerial side]—leaving the other Acts to be extended, as they proposed, till the end of the year.
 MR. DODSON  said, that any statement made or supposed to be made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not affect the Rules of the House, which had been properly laid down by the Chairman. If Progress were now reported the opponents of this Bill would be in no better position. Two courses might be taken—either to have the Bill recommitted with specific instructions from the House for its Amendment, or hon. Members might move their Amendments on the Report, because there was
 1021
 MR. DODSON  said, it occurred to him that by this discussion the Committee was wasting time. The Amendments in question could not be moved at the present stage, and the proper occasion for bringing them forward was on the Report.
 MR. J. MARTIN  said, he thought the Irish Members should be placed in the position they would have occupied had they not misunderstood what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought they had better report Progress.
 MR. J. MARTIN  said, he was obliged to the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Eardley Wilmot) for condescending to patronize Irish Members, by urging on the Government to accept the term 31st of October, 1875, instead of the 31st of December. They would gladly accept the proposition of the hon. Member if they could do so honourably—if they could do so on principle; but they could not. To prove that they desired not to obstruct Public Business, but that it was the Government that were doing so, he would consent to the 1st of September, but not one day longer. The English faction in Ireland, supported by their large majorities, might ridicule them for that determination, but they had arrived at it deliberately, and meant to adhere to it.
 MR. J. MARTIN  said, he hoped and trusted that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for limerick (Mr. Butt) would persist in dividing the House on his Motion. He (Mr. Martin) had been waiting on this occasion, as he had waited when this Bill was introduced, but he had waited in vain, to hear one intelligible sentence from any Member of Her Majesty's Government, how it was, and why it was that they tried to cause the people of Ireland not only to be disaffected, but to remain and continue perpetually disaffected, by deliberately, year after year, on one pretence or another, or on no pretence at all—by deliberately depriving Her Majesty's subjects—forming one third of the United Kingdom—of their rights as British freemen or Irish freemen? He had waited in vain. [ Laughter A laugh 1007 Laughter
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  said, that two English Members had already admitted that Coercion Bills were bad; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had pleaded in justification of this proposal that the Government had been only five months in office and that this was a convenient course for them to
 996
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  moved that Progress be reported, seeing that the Government would not afford facilities for the discussion of the Amendments as had been promised by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and as he was reported as having said by the reporter of  The Times
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  maintained that after the statement made the other day by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that they would be at liberty to discuss Amendments in Committee, the Government ought to re-commit the Bill.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  explained that although he had put his Amendment upon the Paper a week ago, he had been given to understand that he could not move it, and all he asked was that the Government would not permit the Forms of the House to stand in the way of his moving it.
 CAPTAIN NOLAN  urged that the sense of the Committee ought to be taken upon the question.
 MR. VANCE  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If his attention has been called to the capture and detention of Mr. Arthur Haselden, a British subject, by brigands, in the neighbourhood of Linares, in Spain; and, if it is intended to make any application to the Spanish Government to compensate Mr. Haselden for the sufferings he has endured, and the ransom which his relations have been obliged to pay to obtain his release, amounting to the sum of six thousand pounds?
 MR. WHITWELL  concurred in the sentiments expressed by his hon. Friend.
 MR. BIGGAR  contended that it was unreasonable, unnecessary, and unjust to include such important measures as the Coercion Acts in an Expiring Laws Continuance Bill. Moreover, it was not fair to insist upon such a Bill being passed at this period of the Session, when there was no time to consider it properly. The hon. Gentleman was reading in a very low tone of voice from a book, when—
 MR. BIGGAR  did not understand that it was contrary to the Rules of the House to read, as he was doing, an Act of Parliament to illustrate the absurdity of their being asked to renew the statutes which in various of their provisions were thoroughly obsolete. The hon. Gentleman was proceeding to make further quotations, when he was again admonished by the Speaker to address himself to the Chair, and after a few further remarks against the Bill, he resumed his seat.
 MR. BIGGAR  moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. BIGGAR  moved that the Chairman do report Progress.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was a grave question whether the list of expiring laws contained in the annual Continuance Bill had not grown to an inconvenient length, and did not contain many Acts which had better be left out of it; but, at the same time, he thought the present was the most inopportune and unfair time for bringing such a question forward which he recollected in his Parliamentary experience. What was the state of the case? Last Session the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) entered a very mild protest against some of the Bills contained in the Continuance Act, and five months since the Government changed. What would have been thought if the in-coming Government, instead of stating what course they were going to take in reference to many pressing matters, had announced their intention to look up all the evil and all the good that had been done during the last 25 years, and then to do nothing else until everything with regard to past legislation had been put right? He did not think such a course would have been at all satisfactory. With regard to the
 990
 MR. RONAYNE  said, for 20 years he had never known agrarian murders in the counties of Kerry, Waterford, or Cork, until the Peace Preservation Act was passed. Last year there was one murder in Cork. In his opinion, there was no reason whatever for extending this Bill. Let them contrast the relative state of society in England and Ireland.
 1005
 MR. RONAYNE  wished to move, as an Amendment, that the clause be struck out of the Bill.
 MR. RONAYNE  observed, that it ill became the hon. Member for the more criminal county of Tyrone (Mr. Macartney), which enjoyed immunity from the restraints to which his own county was subject, to call out for prison and handcuffs for its population. The Government was a miserable one that could retain the Irish people in allegiance without such expedients.
 MR. O'CLERY  said, the persistent action of the Ministry in thus forcing measures of coercion upon Ireland was only part of the reactionary policy of every Government since the Union—only part of that programme of bringing Ireland, as a conquered country, to the feet of England, that had always been pursued against her. The sooner the Government announced that fact to Europe the better for Ireland. Russia held Poland in subjection without giving Europe any assurance respecting her future lot; but, at any rate, she did not calumniate her as a nation. Russia did not hold up Poland to the world as a country in which crime was rife, and where the population was guilty of every conceivable offence, the constant perpetration of which, warranted the application of the most stringent measures. The Czar did not seek any such subterfuge to proclaim a state of siege for the maintenance of his sway in Roland. Let the Ministry say at once that they were not prepared to deal with Ireland in the same way as they would with England, and so get rid of all Pharisaical pretence about the blessing of Constitutional Government. If they really wished to do away with dissatisfaction in Ireland, it could not be done by the introduction of such measures as the Coercion Acts. Lot the Members of that House consider the state of things in Ireland. Let them think for a moment what would be said if an Englishman was unable to go out after sunset without being liable to arrest by the first policeman he met; and this tyrannical law was not to be carried out by the ordinary constable as understood in England, but by a man armed with a rifle and sword-bayonet, who possessed
 1006
 MR. O'CLERY,  as the Irish Members had been misled by the treaty or understanding come to on Saturday, begged to move that the Chairman now leave the Chair.
 MR. DILLWYN  rose to Order. He wished to know whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was entitled to proceed with his remarks when there was no Motion before the House?
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, he had an Amendment on the Paper to omit from Schedule 14 "19 and 20  Vict
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, he wished to set the Attorney General for Ireland right with respect to what he had stated about the Peace Preservation Act. That Bill was passed on the
 988
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  then proposed that the words "first of October, 1875," instead of the words "thirty-first of December, 1875," proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, should be inserted. He hoped the Government would not divide the Committee on his Amendment.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on
 1018
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  disclaimed on the part of Irish Members any intention to treat contemptuously anything that proceeded from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had been under the impression that Irish Members would be able to move Amendments. He wished to know whether, when they came to the 14th Schedule, it would be
 1022
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, he had directed communications to be made to the Master of the Rolls in Ireland and several leading Irish scholars on the subject, and he found that although they recommended that the  Annals of Ulster 977
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, that form of warrant was originally settled in 1848, and continued under the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown at the passing of the Peace Preservation Act of 1870. For that reason I have not thought it necessary to ask the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown on the present occasion.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, he believed that there were five extra policemen in the county of Wexford. If the magistrates in the ordinary way wished the withdrawal of this extra force, Government would have no objection to such a step.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, he would not at that period of the Session waste the time of the House by reading the Question which he had placed on the Paper. It was to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether his attention has been directed to the Pamphlets published by the Lord Justice of Appeal on the judicial system of Ireland, and to Correspondence between the Judge of the Landed Estates Court and the Lord Chancellor, and also to Returns recently laid before Parliament on the judicial work in England and in Ireland respectively; and, whether, having regard to the facts stated in those documents, he will, before another Judicature Bill is introduced relating to Ireland, consider the propriety of issuing a Royal Commission, upon which, as in the similar case of England, the general
 967
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had placed no Notice of Amendment upon the Paper, and unless he made some statement he (Mr. Mitchell Henry) should support the Motion for reporting Progress.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, that he really believed the Chancellor of the Exchequer was desirous of retrieving the blunder that was made by including the
 1000 1001 1002
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  observed that the Irish Members could listen with pleasure to a good-humoured and witty lecture from the Prime Minister, but they would not tamely submit to be lectured by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. They did not seek to supersede the Forms of the House, but only that the Bill should be re-committed, to enable them to discuss their Amendments.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  said, it would facilitate matters if the Report was taken at an hour when the Amendments could be discussed.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  asked the Government if they would permit the Bill to be recommitted.
 MR. CALLAN  moved that the Chairman do now leave the Chair, and remarked that the Prime Minister, who appeared to be in a state of somnolence, [Mr. DISRAELI dissented] appeared to be unable to keep his back benches in order.
 MR. CALLAN  begged to record his protest against the principle of this Expiring Laws Continuance Act. Whatever reasons might have been urged formerly in favour of the Peace Preservation Act of 1870, and the miscalled Protection of Property Act of 1871, those reasons did not apply on the present occasion. The Attorney General for Ireland had told them that those Acts entailed no inconvenience whatever, and that no honest or loyal man in Ireland would suffer any wrong. He might test the accuracy of that assertion by his own case. In his own county (Lowth) he had obtained a licence from a stipendiary magistrate to carry arms. Now, he had taken apartments across a little channel on the south side of the County Down, and had taken with him a revolver, a rifle, and a fowling-piece; and if a constable, in his absence, had entered his apartments and found those weapons there, he would have been liable to two years' imprisonment with hard labour. He had, however, run this risk with his eyes open, and he did not intend, should any action be taken, to plead that he had been ignorant of the law. Mr. Justice Fitzgerald, in opening a recent assize in the county Down, congratulated the grand jury on the fact that there was no single criminal case for trial, and that the county was in a most peaceful state. Yet this was one of the counties which was to be under the operation of one of the Acts, the operation of which, the House was asked to continue. He maintained that of no English or Welsh county could the same be said in regard to the absence of crime, and therefore he contended that it was grossly unjust to continue this Act in force. As a Member
 1004
 MR. CALLAN  said, the Committee, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, would be quite justified in making a new precedent.
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  moved to report Progress.
 MAJOR O'GORMAN  said, he was dreadfully shocked to find that the front Op-
 1017
 MR. O'SHAUGHNESSY  protested against the continuance of these Coercion Acts, because they did more to irritate and annoy the people of Ireland than any other measures in the Statute Book. If the management of Ireland and the regulation of her affairs were handed over simply to the Common Law of the land—which was now administered in the Assize Courts fairly and justly—it would do more to conciliate the country, and bring about peace and concord, than any legislation that had taken place for a long time. What was the origin of these coercion laws? Their origin was to be found in the past history of Ireland, and the constant attempts by the Government of this country to govern Ireland by a minority of creed, race, and class. English writers and statesmen had admitted that such was the fact, and Parliament had admitted it by the reforms it effected through recent legislation—as in the case of the Irish Land and Church Acts, and the few other beneficial measures that had been passed with respect to Ireland in recent years. Now, that admission having been made—that the origin of these coercive measures was the attempt to govern the majority by the minority—it was proposed to maintain that unreasonable system of government so uselessly tried in the past. They had had long experience of the effect of these coercion laws, and had seen that they were a failure now as they had been before, and by that experience Parliament ought to he guided with respect to the present Bill. There was little hope that this debate would have a satisfactory result. The Chief Secretary for Ireland, like his Predecessors, had to look at the political affairs of Ireland with other eyes than those which guided him in reference to the Shannon navigation and other matters affecting the material prosperity of the country; he had to look at them with the eyes of an Attorney General who was a man of good intentions and high professional qualifications, and who if he had the
 999
 MR. BOURKE : Numerous claims have been made by British subjects on account of losses in the Carthagena insurrection. Under the circumstances of the insurrection, the Spanish Government have admitted the rights of German and Italian subjects, and Her Majesty's Government have contended that British subjects should be no less favourably treated. The claims of British subjects are now before the Spanish Government, and our information leads us to hope for an early and favourable reply.
 MR. BOURKE : When the news of Mr. Haselden's arrest reached the Foreign Office, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs immediately telegraphed to Mr. Macdonnell, the Chargé d'Affaires at Madrid, directing him to continue his endeavours to urge the Spanish Government to make energetic efforts in the matter. But, Mr. Haselden was released in consequence of the brigands accepting £5,800 from Mr. Haselden's friends. Mr. Haselden has been informed that Her Majesty's Government cannot repay him the money; but that Mr. Macdonnell has been directed to urge the Spanish Government to do all it can to effect the capture of the brigands and the restoration of the money.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the Report of the Select Committee upon Consular Chaplaincies has only been received within the last few days. The recommendations of the Committee are under
 970
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  remarked that that was a Motion which could not be made in a Continuance Act. No doubt the hon. and learned Member had power to move that certain parts of any Act should not be continued, but he could not introduce Amendments into the original Act.
 MR. BURT  begged to assure the House that there was a strong and very
 979
 MR. FORSYTH  rose to Order, and asked the Speaker whether it was regular for an hon. Member to read to himself from a book.
 MR. FORSYTH  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member might attain
 1019
 MR. REDMOND  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he will explain why the Cesspayers of the county of Wexford are charged with the cost of an extra police force, no such extra force being employed, and the county being, as stated by the learned judge who presided at the recent assizes, in a most peaceful state and a credit to the country?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  suggested that the further consideration of the matter should be postponed.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  could not see in what respect their present position would be improved in that matter if they accepted the Chancellor of the Exchequer's offer. The right hon. Gentleman said, if they limited the operation of that Bill to the 31st of December, 1875, the Government would be forced to take the matter into consideration next Session. But whether they passed the Bill in its present form, or in the form suggested by the right hon. Gentleman, that would be equally the case. What he wished was that the Continuance Bill should be taken earlier in the Session, in order that there might be time to consider separately each measure whose operation it was proposed to continue. What was said on a previous occasion did away with many of the objections that might be raised against the course of the Government in respect to Irish legislation; but there were other Acts included in the Bill before the House on which much might be urged, and he wished, with regard to those measures, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given a more definite promise on the part of the Government. No one could doubt the absolute necessity which existed for a review of the law relating to corrupt practices at elections, in order to important amendments being made. Many of the Judges—especially Mr. Baron Bramwell—who had tried Petitions in various parts of the country had, in their Reports to Parliament, made important and valuable suggestions with a view to the
 989
 MR. C. E. LEWIS  remarked that considerations of great importance centred round this Bill, and he apprehended that an accumulation of this class of legislation would commend itself to no one. This system commenced in 1864, when eight or nine Acts were included in an Expiring Laws Continuance Bill. In 1868–9 the number had increased to 23 or 24, and now about 34 Acts were found in the Schedule. From the nature of the
 984 985
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, having regard to the number of poor persons desirous of visiting Batter-sea Park, during the Bank Holidays, any arrangements can be made by which they may be permitted to cross Battersea Bridge free of toll?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Chelsea (Sir Charles W. Dilke), had stated that the Corrupt Practices Act would be prolonged by this Bill till next year. He found that this was not exactly correct, inasmuch as the Act was continued till the
 997 Nisi Prius 998
 MR. SPEAKER  supposed from what the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated at the outset of his observations, that he intended to conclude with a Motion. If he did not propose to do so, he would, of course, be out of Order.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and learned Gentleman has made no Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was not out of Order in quoting an extract; but he must, at the same time,
 1003
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  deprecated the unconstitutional policy which had been pursued by the Government on this' occasion. In his opinion, it was a most mischievous and indefensible plan to introduce in one Bill the renewal or continuance of several Acts, some of which would not expire for 12 months, instead of bringing them forward as separate measures. The hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. Butt) had made a proposition to the House that those Acts should be renewed for one year only, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer-had met this by another proposition—namely, that the Acts, when renewed, should not remain in force longer than the 31st of December next. That was a concession on the part of the Government, but not such a concession as hon. Members on the other side of the House desired. But he thought that by mutual concessions a satisfactory arrangement might be arrived at. He would, therefore, propose that the time for the expiration of the Act should be set down for the 1st of October, 1875. He believed that if the hon. and learned Member for Limerick would adopt this proposal it would meet the view of the Government; and, if not, and the House divided, then, considering the unconstitutional way in which it was proposed to renew these Acts, he would support him.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, he hoped the Government would accept the 31st of October as the date of the expiry of the Coercion Acts. Earlier in the debate, he had suggested the 1st of the month; but owing to the date at which some other of the Acts included in the Bill would expire, he thought the 31st would be the more convenient date to fix.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, he was to have moved the Adjournment of the House.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  said, he would withdraw his Motion, merely remarking that he did not think justice had been done to his brother, and that he appealed fearlessly to the opinion of the country in the matter.
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT  wished to say a few words in reference to this matter. ["Order!"] He thought the House would listen to a few words from him respecting his brother—a gallant officer who had served his country in every quarter of the globe for upwards of 40 years. In 1870, his brother having not long before returned from the command of the African Squadron, and having his services adverted to in the Queen's Speech in 1866, was appointed second in command of the Channel Fleet. He had served in the war in China, at Acre, under Sir Charles Napier; he had been at Bomarsund; and he had served in the Crimean War. In 1871 the unfortunate affair of the grounding of the  Agincourt Agincourt 974 Monarch Captain Agincourt
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  said, he had voted with the minority in the last division, but appealed to hon. Members not to divide the Committee again, but rather to move afterwards the re-committal of the Bill.
 SIR JOHN LUBBOCK  thought the re-committal of the Bill would not give the Irish Members an opportunity of discussing the new clauses. What was required was that there should be an Instruction to the Committee which they would have an opportunity of moving at a future stage.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  must say that was the oddest kind of disarming he had ever beard of. Whatever he had said on Saturday was entirely harmless in its effect on hon. Gentlemen opposite, because they treated it at the time in the most contemptuous way; and, so far from entering into a treaty or disarming, they went on fighting the whole day.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not say whether the report in question was or was not accurate; but he certainly had not intended to convey the impression imputed to him.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had been about to rise for that purpose. He had never pledged the' Government to give any particular facilities to hon. Members for moving Amendments; but he had pointed out that if they moved that it be an Instruction to the Committee that certain Amendments be made in the Bill those Amendments could now be moved. He entertained no doubt that hon. Members would move Amendments in Committee. He moved to leave out Column 5 in the Schedule.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the proposed addition was in effect a new clause, and that was not what he contemplated when he made the statement referred to.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  reminded the Committee that, besides these Irish measures, there were no less than 34 Acts involved, a considerable number of which were important, and that if the proposal of the hon. Member for Cork were accepted the House might find itself next Session with a large amount of Autumn business on hand, which a Dissolution or various other contingencies might render it im-
 1016
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that apart from the particular question of the trial of election Petitions, scarcely a word had been uttered by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, in which he and the Government did not cordially concur. In point of fact, the expressions he had used in regard to this kind of legislation were in strict conformity with the remarks made by Lord Salisbury and Lord Carnarvon last year, and made substantially by himself (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) last Saturday. He entirely agreed—and he spoke for his Colleagues as well as for himself—that it was important that they should put a check on what appeared to be an abuse of their system of renewing Acts. It was not quite a new proceeding—it had now been going on for some 10 years—and gradually the convenience of the system had commended itself to those interested in this or the other piece of legislation. Undoubtedly they had fallen into a rather "slip-shod" way of dealing with matters which ought to be dealt with more carefully. It was certainly a very easy mode of getting over the difficulty when legislation was proposed that it should only be proposed temporarily or for one year, in order that they might have some experience of its working, and then consider what more ought to be done. But then, after going on in that way for one year, it was so easy to slip the matter into a Schedule of a Bill brought in at the end of the Session, and to repeat that process from year to
 986 bonâ fide 987 A laugh
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, although he had no Amendment on the Paper, it was his intention, when they came to Clause 2, to propose, in line 4, to leave out the times respectively specified, and to say, "shall be continued until the 31st of December, 1875." That was the proposal which he made early in the evening, and to it he adhered.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that with regard to the first Question, he believed the case stood thus: a Commission or Committee was appointed by the Government in 1868, which drew up a scheme for the improvement of the position of the clerks of the Customs. That scheme was coupled with a recommendation that the salaries of the clerks at the outports should be accommodated to the proposals recommended as to the London clerks. There was a further recommendation that after that had been done, the position of the out-door officers should also be considered. At that juncture there was a change of Government, and the new Government suspended the whole of these proceedings. After a time the matter was taken up again, and the Report which had been made to the previous Government was adopted, and it was decided to give to the clerks in London that which had been proposed for them. It was further decided that as the matter had been suspended for a considerable time, the clerks should have back pay during that time of suspension. Then came the ease of the clerks at the outports; and it was decided that they also should receive back pay, but not for the same period as that for which the London clerks received it. Then came the case of the out-door officers, with regard to whom no scheme had been proposed. Ultimately a scheme was prepared, and their salaries were increased; but the question of giving them back pay was one which did not appear to be founded in reason or justice, their case being essentially different from that of the other two classes of clerks. With regard to the salaries of the subordinate out-door officers at the chief outports, they certainly deserved re-consideration; but it would not be possible to put them upon the same footing as the Liverpool clerks, because the amount of business done at Liverpool was second only to that of London, and greatly in excess of that of any other of the out-ports. Liverpool and London had always been treated on a different footing from any other out-port. The position of the clerks in the out-door out-ports, however, should be considered.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, it was understood that the contribution would be made in respect of patients who were confined in the parochial lunatic asylums, and a Vote would be proposed at the beginning of next Session.
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD , in reply, said, all that he had done on the day before was to make certain suggestions for the consideration of the Government as to making some modifications in the Bill which he deemed to be desirable. He had reason to know that these suggestions would be favourably considered; but he was not in any event prepared to place Amendments embodying them on the Paper.
 SIR MICHAEL-HICKS-BEACH : Sir, the names of the persons to whom the Question relates are John and George Doherty. Both have recently been in-mates of Letterkenny Lunatic Asylum; one was discharged as of sound mind, the other escaped just before he was about
 1030
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that with the exception of three counties and eight boroughs, the Returns which had been ordered on this subject had been made. He believed that before the end of the Session the Returns for these three counties would be received, and he hoped to be able to answer the hon. Member's Question more fully if it were repeated about the middle of next week.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that the fifth and last Report of the Judicature Commission was finally agreed to on the 20th instant. The only delay that had occurred had been a delay with reference to the signatures. He hoped that the signatures would be obtained in time to lay the Report on the Table before the close of the Session?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the Bank Holidays, as fixed by the Act which bears the hon. Baronet's name, are four in number—Easter Monday, Whit Monday, the first Monday in August, and the first working day after Christmas Day. It is proposed by the Judicature Rules to adopt three of these Bank Holidays as holidays in the Law Offices—namely, Easter Monday, Whit Monday, and the day after Christmas Day—but it is not proposed to make the first Monday in August a holiday; and, having regard to the pressure of business in the Law Offices at that period of the year, I do not think that it would be conducive to the interests of the public to make an early day in August a holiday in the Law Offices. I may take this opportunity of stating that I have to-day laid on the Table of the House a Copy of the Judicature Rules as pre-pared by the Judges and submitted to the Lord Chancellor, and also a Copy of the recommendations of the Judges as regards a re-arrangement of the Circuits.
 MR. BRAND  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether his attention has been called to the remarks made by Baron Bramwell at Stroud upon the practice of giving the artisans employed in the mills a holiday on the day of polling at Parliamentary Elections with-out deduction of their wages; and, if so, whether it is his intention to rescind the order lately issued to the dockyards which authorised the practice condemned by Baron Bramwell; and, whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill for extending the hours of polling so that the artisans employed in dockyards, mills, &c. may have increased
 1035
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, under the certificate of the Charity Commissioners, proceedings have been taken and are now pending in the Court of Chancery for the purpose of having
 1036 "That no trustee shall act in the administration of the charity until he shall have signed a memorandum to the effect that he is a member of the Church of England, and is willing to undertake the trust as regulated by the scheme."
 MR. BASS  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been drawn to a report of a punishment inflicted by the Head Master of Shrewsbury School on a boy
 1037
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that he had no further information on the subject than had appeared in  The Times
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  said, he would, after the direct appeal which had been made to him, venture to trouble the House with a few observations. He was one of the Governing Body of the school, and he was appealed to by Mr. Moss a few days ago, to vindicate him from the charge of having grossly ill-used a pupil. He thought the case demanded a searching investigation, and that it ought to take place at Shrewsbury; but, unfortunately, from his Parliamentary and legal duties, he was prevented from attending the inquiry. It was conducted by the Rev. Dr. Bateson (the chairman), the Bishop of Man-chester, Earl Powis, Mr. Hibbert (late M.P.), and Mr. Kenyon, Q.C., and they arrived at the conclusion that the original charges against Mr. Moss had been exaggerated, and also that the punishment inflicted was not excessive or improper. As to the facts, he was not able to add anything to the statement which had appeared in the newspapers. The conclusion to be drawn from the facts was another matter. He had no right to impugn the decision of his colleagues.
 1038
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, it would be unnecessary for him to enter into any detailed statement with reference to it. The circumstances which had rendered it necessary to bring in the Bill were thoroughly well known to the House. In consequence of the state of Public Business, it had been found impossible to proceed with the Amendment Bill brought down from the House of Lords during the present Session, and as the Judicature Act of last year could not be worked in its existing form, it had become a matter of absolute necessity to introduce the present Bill, the second reading of which he now begged to move.
 MR. OSBORNE MORGAN  said, he did not rise to oppose the second reading, but to express regret that all those great legal reforms which were heralded with such a flourish of trumpets at the commencement of the Session had proved so abortive. He could not help thinking that if ordinary diligence had been used and if the Amendment Bill had been brought to the House of Commons after the Easter or Whitsun Recess, it would have been passed with the greatest ease. Indeed, if it had been brought in on the 1st of July it might even then have been passed, but for that unfortunate mania for ecclesiastical legislation which had crept in. He hoped the Government would bring in an amending Bill as early as possible next Session, and so remove the inconvenience which was caused by the present suspended animation of our Courts of Law.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if the second reading were agreed
 1042
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, it would be interesting to the House to have some further explanation on the subject of this Resolution before the Order is discharged. We adopted the Resolution under an assurance from the Government of its necessity, and therefore it is desirable we should know what view the Government takes respecting it? Do they think the Bill stands well without it? On what foundation do they propose to discharge the Resolution?
 MR. HUBBARD (London)  said, he wished to explain why he had not moved the Amendments of which he had given Notice in Committee. In order to do so, he would require to draw the attention of the House to what had taken place with respect to the 1st clause, which fixed the title to be the "Public Worship Regulation Act, 1874." He objected to that title as a misnomer, inasmuch as the author of the Bill, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Selborne, and Lord Cairns had all declared, in and out of Parliament, that it neither touched doctrine nor discipline, that it created no new offences, that it in no way interfered with public worship, and that it was simply an improvement of the Procedure Act. He therefore proposed to alter the title to one which described the real object of the Bill. His
 1044
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he did not understand the Forms of the House so well as the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. He did not, however, propose any further Motion on the subject, and should leave it in the hands of those who had charge of the Bill. All he cared for was that in their legislation they should be explicit and truthful. With regard to the Schedule, when that was last under consideration, it was considered imperative that those who might be complainants under the provisions of this Bill should be qualified by being interested in the matters of which they complained—that, in fact, they should be members of the Church of England. But some hon. Members had raised doubts as to the sufficiency of that declaration, and it would be remembered that the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) asked, "What was a member of the Church of England?" and an-other hon. Gentleman, a member of that respectable body the Society of Friends, the hon. Member for Bedfordshire (Mr. Bassett), said that they all were members, some conforming and some non-conforming. The hon. Member for Merthyr (Mr. Richard) had also declared that a member of the Nonconformist Body was legally a member of the Church of England. It might be, in one sense, said that every baptised person was a member of the Church; but the clear and indisputable test was, whether or not any person was a communicant. The Sovereign of this country was, by law, required to be a member of the Church of England, and the evidence of such membership was provided by the reception of the Holy Communion
 1045
 MR. SCOURFIELD , in moving the omission of the clause, said, short titles, as a rule, were, in his opinion, of little or no consequence, but if there was to be a short title at all it ought, he thought, to describe what was in the Bill. Now, he contended that the Bill did not relate to the regulation of public worship at all, and that being the case it was a misnomer to call it by such a
 1047
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  could not think the House would be inclined to accept the Amendment. The extraordinary proposal was, that the House was to dispose of a fund which was not in its possession, and to dispose of it by anticipation. His hon. and learned Friend was aware the Bill would not come into operation until the 1st of July in next year, therefore, there would be ample time to consider the question of ecclesiastical fees; but he could not think that Parliament would tie its hands as to the disposal of those fees by an Amendment on the mere Report of a Bill. He strongly objected to taking the money out of the common fund for the purpose, and which money ought to go to the poor clergy. To deal with ecclesiastical fees was one of the most serious subjects that could come before Parliament, and would require a Bill itself, and not that they should be treated in the off-hand manner proposed.
 MR. HUBBARD (London)  asked, out of what fund the salary of the Judge was to he taken, if it was not to he taken out of an ecclesiastical fund? He thought the application of the funds administered by the ecclesiastical Commissioners to the payment of the salary of the Judge, was one of the most legitimate purposes to which that fund could he applied.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, it was plain to him, from the speech of the hon. Member for South-East Lancashire (Mr. Hardcastle), and from some other speeches, that the Motion before the House was not understood. The hon. Gentleman stated, and he (Mr. Gladstone) had, no doubt, most sincerely believed, that the proposal provided for the salary of the Judge out of ecclesiastical fees. But the proposal was nothing of the kind. To say that there were ecclesiastical fees out of which the salary of the Judge could be paid, was pure, absolute, undiluted moonshine. His hon. and learned Friend said there were plenty of fees out of which to pay the Judge. If so, why did his hon. and
 1061 1062
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the Bill had been all along represented as making no change in the law, but only in procedure. It was now clear that the Bill was about to change the law. His right hon. and learned Friend the Recorder proposed to leave out the words "forbidden by law," and to substitute others; but in his (Mr. Hardy's) opinion, it was not necessary to do so, recollecting that Lord Stowell dealt with questions of law of this kind on principles that it was not now necessary to depart from. If his right hon. and learned Friend, therefore, pressed his Amendment, he would alter not only the Bill, but the mode of procedure, inasmuch as Lord Stowell laid it clown that the great thing to know was whether a thing was lawful in itself, and if it were lawful, he would not enter into the question of the Faculty. He (Mr. Hardy) said the confessional was a question which, as to its illegality, was not yet decided, although he himself thought there could be no question as to its being unlawful, and it was better to try what the present law would do before making a new law. Let the Bill be confined to questions of ecclesiastical procedure without altering the ecclesiastical law.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that a controversy of great importance had been raised by the right hon. and learned Recorder. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War had stated that this was no longer to be described as a Bill of procedure, but as a Bill for the alteration of ecclesiastical law. It was of the utmost importance to get at the bottom of the assertion of the right hon. Gentleman, and he trusted the hon. and learned Attorney General would give the House his opinion on this subject. Lord Stowell had drawn a distinction between strict law and matters done under a Faculty. Here, a thing was to be declared unlawful unless a Faculty had been obtained for it. Nothing came up to the demands of strict law unless a Faculty had been obtained for it, and there was a great convenience in retaining that strict law. But that was not the law by which they were governed according to the declaration of Lord Stowell, endorsed by Sir Robert Phillimore, and quoted by the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland. The practical course of the law was, that new objects were introduced into churches, and, in point of fact, if anyone considered what the Church was, they would see that all manner of new objects must be continually introduced; but for the most part they were of very small importance indeed, and when one of those objects was questioned, the matter went before the ordinary and was inquired into. They had heard in the course of the discussion of the confessional. Well, of course, everything was cited that could warm men's blood, and disturb their judgments, and draw them from the calm consideration of the case. But what was the difficulty in regard to the confessional? As he understood, from what had been said by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Sir William Harcourt), if at present the confessional was challenged before an ecclesiastical Judge, it was in his power to condemn it, because it had been put up without a Faculty. The practical course as laid down by Lord Stowell was, that the question tried before the
 1065
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that, having been so pointedly referred to by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, he could not abstain from saying a few words in reference to the proposed Amendment; but he was not disposed to attach so much importance to it as some hon. Members did. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Recorder, had, in the first instance, proposed to omit the words "forbidden by law" and to substitute for them the words, "without a faculty from the ordinary authorizing or confirming such alteration or addition;" but now he proposed to substitute the words "without lawful authority." He (the Attorney General) thought that the words "forbidden by law" and "without lawful authority" would be found in practice to have substantially the same effect; but, viewing thorn as a lawyer, he thought the words "without lawful authority" were some-what more extended in their operation. Instances had boon suggested, and it would not be difficult to suggest others, of acts and practices which were not for-bidden by law, but for the doing of which there was no lawful authority.
 MR. GLADSTONE , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 5, line 26, to leave out from "provided also" to "representation" in line 43, inclusive, said, he was about to ask the House to reconsider a judgment at which, on a recent sitting, it had arrived after a very short discussion in Committee, and, as he thought, without the extreme gravity of the matter involved in that judgment really being perceived. He must, however, apologize to the House for not having been present himself on that occasion, as a very urgent private matter had required him to be elsewhere. He had made an offering in the cause of peace, and he trusted that the Bill would advance with very little further discussion
 1067 1068 1069 1070 Henry 1071
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that having begun his speech at an unseasonable time, he was compelled to sit down before completing it. He had, however, nearly concluded all he had to say, and would only trouble the House with a few re-marks indicating the exact character of the Amendment which he proposed. He had ventured to lay down these propositions—that the Amendment hastily introduced into the Bill did not give the right of appeal at all; in the second place, that the eminent person who was to be called on to review and reverse the judgment of the Bishop was a person who must necessarily approach the case with a far inferior knowledge and means of information, because although it was the duty of the Bishop to know all the parishes in his diocese, it was impossible for the Archbishop to know every parish within his province. Thirdly, he ventured to point out that the giving the Archbishop original jurisdiction was totally contrary to the principles of the Episcopal Church. In the fourth place, he said that it was a great hardship upon the clergy to be subjected to double instead of single ordeal, preparatory to trial; and lastly, he urged that even if all these things were fit to be done, they were unfit to be done on the 28th of July, and unfit to be maintained on the 31st of July, for he solemnly believed that at the very moment when he was making that last appeal to the equity of the House of Commons, that more than one half the clergy of the Church of England who would be personally affected by the Amendment were not aware of that which the House was voting. In doing so, he had, he hoped, redeemed the pledge he had given, and
 1081
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, the speech of his hon. and learned Friend might be divided into three portions. In the first part he had good-humouredly referred to the differences which existed on this question between the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government and his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War, and speaking of the absence of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, had said that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War had assumed the leadership of the House and had gone against the Bill. It was quite clear, however, that the first part of his hon. and learned Friend's speech was answered by the second, which was, and was intended to be, a manifesto against the course taken in reference to the Bill by the late Prime Minister, and a direct challenge to the opinions which that right hon. Gentleman had put forth. If there was any reproach, therefore, arising from the differences of opinion which prevailed, that reproach applied to the bench opposite as well as to the Treasury Bench. In the second part of his hon. and learned Friend's speech, the vast majority of the House concurred, and he confessed that he was among the majority, The clergy of the Church of England had accepted their benefices upon the express condition that they should conform to the law of that Church as accepted by the nation and by the Parliament of England. He quite concurred with his hon. and learned Friend that the obligation they were under to perform these services according to law was binding and supreme, and further that they were not only not to break the law themselves, but that they were bound to set an example to others of obedience to the law. With respect to the third part of the speech, they might dismiss altogether the hostility and animosity of his hon. and learned Friend to the policy of the late Prime Minister. It was a practical question, and one which had nothing to do with Canon Law. The
 1091
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he thought the speech to which they had just listened showed how extremes met. The hon. Member argued that there was an indiscretion in Bishops which required to be controlled, and that there was none in Archbishops, who, there-fore, did not require control. The hon. Gentleman told them there might be an indiscreet Bishop, and that it was requisite to have some one over him; and there was to be no one over the Archbishop, because it was to be presumed that the Archbishop was infallible. No doubt, out of the whole body of Bishops appointed, there might be some who were indiscreet; but, with the highest respect for Archbishops, he ventured to say they were not always absolutely discreet or infallible; and when the hon. Member proposed that the decision of a Bishop should be reviewed by a person who they had no right to suppose would be more discreet than the Bishop, he was both setting up the infallibility of two Popes instead of one, and at the same time laying down a law hitherto entirely unrecognized in the Church of England. He was attempting to make the two Archbishops odious by converting them into the public prosecutors of the Kingdom. ["No, no!"] What were they to be then? That was not an appeal, but a case in which the discretion of one man was to be overruled by the discretion of another, not in the sense of relieving harshness or injustice, but for the institution of a prosecution. If it were a question of law, he could under-stand their referring it to another tribunal; but it was a question of simple discretion, not of law. Where the Bishop said a prosecution ought not to be instituted, his opinion was to be re-viewed by his Archbishop, a person, in all probability, no more discreet than his Suffragan; and if the Archbishop said there was to be a prosecution, the unfortunate Suffragan was to be compelled to take all the steps in the prosecution which he had himself refused to sanction. That was a perfectly novel proceeding in the whole history of the country. He regretted that he was not
 1085 Murmurs
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the hon. Members for Aberdeen and Edinburgh had been very consistent in their opposition to the whole Bill, and had done everything they could to prevent its passing. Therefore, he was not discouraged by their trying to make the Amendment more palatable to those who did belong to the Church and to those who did not. Under the Act of 1690, the power of election was vested in the congregation; while the heritors and the elders had the right to propose to the congregation, the ultimate result depended upon the congregation them-selves. The views of contemporary writers wore, that effect was always given to any objection taken by the congregation, unless it was the result of improper proceeding on the part of the congregation. ["No, no!"] The hon. Member for Aberdeen might say "No;" but he (the Lord Advocate) was stating his views of the case, and he hoped the hon. Member would not interrupt him. He ventured to say that that was the proper construction of the Act of 1690, and they were now coming back, by throwing out the Act of Queen Anne, to the original Act.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he objected to the introduction of the word "candidates," and thought the clause had better stand as it was.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that having fully and anxiously considered the Amendment, and consulted with persons in authority on the subject, he was of opinion that it was not within the scope of the Bill, and also that it was not necessary for the object in view.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would agree to the Amendment, in sub-stance, but would suggest an alteration to make it applicable to more than one patron.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  opposed the alteration.
 MR. EVELYN ASHLEY  thought that to pass the Bill without making any provision, beyond a mere temporary arrangement, for the maintenance of the Judge whom it was proposed to appoint, would be to stamp it as a farce and an unreality. In common with others, he had voted the other day for making that a charge upon the Consolidated Fund, not because he thought that was strictly the proper course, but because he recognized the paramount importance of the Bill. Whatever difficulties there were would be best overcome by declaring plainly that the salary should be provided out of the funds at the disposal of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, which, in his opinion, ought certainly to be devoted to Church purposes. If the Bill was passed in the form now proposed, it would, to the student of the Statute Book, mean nothing at all.
 MR. KINNAIRD  remarked that, as by the last vote they had denationalized the Church, it would be unjustifiable to take any of the money required from the Consolidated Fund. He, however, thought the Bill was very defective, when it did not provide for the payment of the Judge's salary, and in his opinion the funds for that purpose should come out of the Ecclesiastical Fund.
 MR. COWPER-TEMPLE  said, the definition of a parishioner which was given in the clause was for the special purpose of putting the powers of the Court in motion, and would not define the qualification of a parishioner for any other purpose. The hon. Member for Swansea was mistaken in supposing that the object of this clause was to deprive Nonconformists of any rights to which they were entitled. The clause simply provided that if any members of the Church of England were aggrieved at the way in which the services of the Church were conducted in the church which they attended, they should have a right to complain of any illegality. The effect of the hon. Member's Amendment would be to introduce an inconsistency into the Bill by allowing persons who did not attend the Church of England to prefer charges against clergymen for not performing the services properly, although they had voluntarily renounced their participation in those services.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, Registers of Meteorological Observations from the Bombay Presidency since the year 1853 have been sent to the India Office, and a few of these documents have been mislaid—at least, they cannot now be found. Since 1853 to 1863 Re-turns from Madras and Bombay have been sent to the Astronomer Royal at Greenwich. Since that time they have been sent to the Army Medical Department. Finding, however, that no use was made by that Department of these Returns, we have asked them to be sent back, and they are now in safe keeping at Greenwich. The Secretary of State has recently pointed out to the Indian Government that if these Returns are to be utilized, it will be necessary to adopt a system of general control and inspection, so as to insure uniformity of method.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in reply, said, the Bank Holidays Act did not apply to the Post Office; but it had been arranged that the clerks should have a holiday on Easter Monday, Whit Mon-day, and the day after Christmas Day. It would, however, be inconvenient to observe the first Monday in August as a holiday at the Post Office. He did not think the clerks in the Savings Bank Department had a claim to the same holidays which were secured by law in other banking establishments.
 MR. WHITELAW  moved, as an Amendment in page 4, line 13, after "with "to insert "the appointment of the minister first appointed as the minister of any new parish quoad sacra or."
 MR. ORR EWING  moved, as an Amendment, in line 36, to change the phrase "such other adherents" to "any other adherents."
 MR. ORR EWING  thought that the clause as it stood was the only method in which a guarantee for payment could be secured, and he therefore trusted that the Amendment would not be accepted.
 MR. ORR EWING , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 2, to leave out "shall," and insert "is hereby declared to," said, that he had intended to move the Amendment without making any remark upon it; but he was in-formed that one or two hon. Gentlemen who had opposed the Bill on the second reading, intended to object to his proposal, and it therefore became necessary for him to make a few remarks. When he proposed the same Amendment in Committee, he was met by only one objection—namely, that the effect of its being carried would be to prevent other hon. Members from moving Amendments which, if carried, would have the effect of changing the constitution of the elective body. He therefore yielded to the request of his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate to withdraw his Amendment, and propose it on the Report. He believed that some hon. Members on the opposite side of the House had since then found out other objections to the Amendment. He
 1096
 MR. HAYTER  asked Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is true that he has proposed a scheme for the regulation of Saint John's Hospital, Bath, containing the following Clause:—The trustees of the charity shall consist of such of the trustees for the time being appointed by the Lord High Chancellor under the provisions of the fifth and sixth Victoria, chapter seventy six, to be trustees of the Municipal Charities vested in the Corporation of the city of Bath as shall be members of the Church of England, who shall be ex-officio members of the charity. No trustee shall act in the ad-ministration of the charity until he shall have signed a memorandum to the effect that he is a member of the Church of England and is willing to undertake the trust as regulated by the scheme; whether he is aware that Nonconformists have hitherto acted as trustees of the said charity; and, whether, in face of the opposition that has been expressed by the citizens of Bath in public meeting assembled, and also by the present trustees, to the proposed scheme, he purposes to ask for its approval by the Court of Chancery?
 CAPTAIN BEDFORD PIM  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, Whether it is true that Her Majesty's ship "Raleigh" has now been commissioned nearly eight months without being employed on the service for which she was intended; that every available space has been filled with ballast to give her stability; that she is now two feet deeper in the water than she ought to be without attaining that stability; and, whether this ship was constructed from designs for which Mr. E. J. Reed, C.B., late Chief Constructor of the Navy, is responsible?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I moved this Resolution because the House appeared to be in a considerable difficulty, and I felt it my duty to offer a suggestion which I thought might extricate them from it. The Resolution was sanctioned by the House, and I have no doubt if we had gone into the discussion of its merits, it could have been shown that the Consolidated Fund would have suffered in no degree whatever from adopting the principle of this temporary charge. But since the Resolution was passed a communication has been made to me which induces me to believe that the Resolution is no longer necessary,
 1043
 MR. DISRAELI : Perhaps the House will allow me to explain more fully. I regret I cannot make a communication in detail as I could have wished; but probably I may be able to do so before the House adjourns. The arrangement is one which will secure the offices of a Judge of the highest distinction, and who will require no increase of remuneration beyond the pension which he has already earned as a reward for his services.
 MR. DISRAELI : I have pleasure, Sir, in admitting that the hon. and learned Gentleman has addressed the House in a fair and moderate speech, and also that it is not the first fair and moderate speech which he has made on public affairs. I am sure that the hon. and learned Gentleman and his Friends, if they did not advance their peculiar views, would obtain for them an impartial consideration, if they adopted that tone always in this House. Now, the hon. and learned Gentleman has objected to two things—first of all, to Continuance Acts; and, secondly, to Coercion Acts. What I complain of is that, whatever may be the opinions of the hon. and learned Gentleman and his Friends, it is extremely unfair to make their opinions upon those two questions a ground for any attack upon Her Majesty's Government, or any foundation for the embarrassment of Public Business at the present moment. Now, with regard to Continuance Bills, I am not prepared to say that there are not circumstances in which such Bills may not be necessary, and probably we shall never have a Session of Parliament in which some recourse to such instruments may not be required. But that in Continuance Bills it is extremely desirable Acts should not be included which touch some vital interests of the nation, I am perfectly ready to admit. Whatever may be one's opinion upon the necessity of legislation of that kind, all will, I think, agree that the policy which those Bills express and enjoin ought to be brought, forward in a manner more open and direct than can be done by a Continuance Bill; and, as a general rule, the introduction of Acts such as those to which the hon. and learned Gentleman has referred in a Continuance Bill is to be deprecated. These are not new opinions of my own, nor of the party with which I am connected. It is a fact which cannot be denied, that the very grievance of which the hon. and learned Gentleman and his Friends now so loudly and strenuously complain, was first brought under the notice of the other House of Parliament by noble Lords who are my Colleagues, and I have always agreed with them upon that matter. But what I do complain of is, that the question has boon taken up at the end of the
 1077 1078 1079
 MR. FRASER-MACKINTOSH , in moving as an Amendment, in page 2, line 19, after "thereof," to insert "as well as upon all other questions with which it is the province of the Church to deal," said, that the object of the Amendment was to protect the spiritual independence of the Church against the civil Courts.
 MR. MONK  said, he rose simply to call the attention of the House to the Rubric with respect to the exercise of the discretion of the Bishop, in which it was set forth that in cases of doubt the parties doubting should resort to the Bishop of the diocese, who, in his discretion, should take steps for quieting and removing the same, and that if the Bishop should be in doubt, then he might appeal to the Archbishop.
 MR. MONK  supported the Amendment. Before going into Committee, he had proposed a somewhat similar scheme; but his hon. and learned Friend had carried it out in greater detail. There could be no doubt, that if this
 1057
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not see the force of the objection raised by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. They knew that there was a revenue accruing from fees, and the hon. and learned Gentleman was not proposing to give up all the fees. The common fund had been provided for by the income of the Bishop's estates. He held that these funds were essential for the preservation of the Church.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member was right in ascribing to him a desire to maintain the national character of the Church of England; but his hon. Friend claimed for the Nonconformists a right in the Church of England. His object as a Member of that Church was to preserve her in such a condition that the claims of the Nonconformists should not be ignored. When, however, they were providing against the innovations of Rome, he feared it would impede the efficacy of their action if they admitted other Nonconformist
 1053
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that inasmuch as these proceedings would rest on facts and not on law, it would be most dangerous to allow a Bishop to establish in his own diocese a rule ad-verso to the operation of this measure, which he could do by aggregating a number of cases which he would not allow to be tried. It had been said that the Bishop did not pronounce judgment; but he did so, in fact, when he refused access to the Court. But he (Mr. Newdegate) could not conceive a power that ought to be more emphatically subjected to an appeal than that put into the hands of the Bishop by the Bill; and that appeal ought to he with the Arch-bishop. It was of the very essence of the Bill that there should be a facility of procedure, and if the House entrusted to anyone the power of defeating that principle, it ought to be only to the highest authority in the Church. There was great diversity of opinion among the Bishops, and was it the object of the House to allow one practice to be established in one diocese and another in another? They all knew that the right hon. Member for Greenwich de-sired all kinds of diversities in the Church, and was entirely opposed to the principle of the Bill. But the House desired to enforce all reasonable uniformity. The right hon. Gentleman was endeavouring to defeat the Bill in every way; but he would appeal to every consistent supporter of the principle of the Bill to vote in favour of giving this power to the Archbishop.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he had been much surprised at the observations of the hon. Member for Stirling. He hoped that though they had the right to disestablish and disendow the Established Church of Scotland, they would never think of altering her form of worship or creed. He also had to complain that the senior Member for Edinburgh had stated inaccurately the number of communicants in North and South Leith.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he was willing to substitute for the word "candidates," the word "persons."
 MR. M'LAREN  moved, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 4, to leave out "a" and insert "one or more candidates to fill the vacant office of." The hon. Member said that as the clause stood, there might be only one person presented to the congregation by a scheming committee, and he wished to give the congregation a choice. The proposition seemed so reasonable that he hoped the Lord Advocate would adopt it at once.
 MR. M'LAREN , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 5, to leave out "not exceed," and insert "be equal to," said, its effect would be that a patron would receive a compensation which would amount to one year's stipend certain.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he looked upon the Amendment as a great improvement, but considered that the time for collecting the money should be three years, instead of six months.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the hon. Member for Aberdeen had so clearly stated the difference between the law as it was, and the law as it was proposed to be declared to be by the proposed clause, that he would not occupy the time of the House by going over what had been so well said. In round numbers, the present proposal included about 1,000 parishes and 500,000 communicants who would become the electors, or about 500 electors to every congregation. By the Act of 1690, it was the heritors and elders who according to law proposed the minister to the people. That was the election by the heritors and elders, subject to a veto by the congregation, and an appeal to the Presbytery. An hon. Member had stated that the Bill was not more for one Church than another. That statement surprised him. The Free Church, as it
 1098
 MR. M'LAREN  objected, on the ground that it might have the effect of enabling kirk sessions to exclude adherents.
 MR. M'LAREN  thought that the proposal was inconsistent with the Bill.
 MR. M'LAREN  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, with reference to the published Revenue Returns up to the 25th of July (which state that the gross revenue from the Post Office and Tele-graph Service amounts to £2,250,000
 1031
 MR. HARDCASTLE  thought the first object of the House should be to secure the services of a first-rate Judge, whose opinions would command confidence; and that the House could not gauge the value of the services of such a Judge, by the fact of his having only two or three causes to dispose of in a year. With regard to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford, that the source out of which the salary of the Judge should be paid should be fees paid for the performance of various ecclesiastical functions, he (Mr. Hard-castle) thought no more reasonable course could he proposed. He knew as a fact that the work done by a considerable number of ecclesiastical officers, in
 1060
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, When further Papers relating to the recent disturbances in Natal will be laid on the Table; and whether, if they are not received before the end of the Session, they could be put into the hands of hon. Members during the Recess?
 MR. E. J. REED  said, that the question before them was a very simple one, and one that they might come to a vote upon without further discussion. It was, whether the Bishop, being authorized to put the law into motion, they should allow him to refuse to put the law in
 1092
 MR. EGERTON HUBBARD  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether it is true that a series of Meteorological Observations taken at four stations in the Bombay Presidency were sent home periodically to the India Office since 1854, and that many of the Observations have been lost; and, whether the Meteorological Observations taken since 1867 at fourteen stations in the Madras Presidency have yet been published or utilised in any way?
 MR. ANDERSON  supported the Amendment.
 MR. GREGORY  pointed out that it would be a matter of very great difficulty to the branch of the profession to which he belonged to carry on their business unless time was given for the consideration of this Act and the new forms under it, between what might be called the legal year and the period when the Act came into operation. It was impossible that it could be brought into operation  per se 1041
 MR. HUNT , in reply, said, he doubted whether the Circular recently issued by the Admiralty fell within the principle referred to by Baron Bramwell in his judgment. The Circular provided that there should always be a half holiday for voters in Dockyards, and in his (Mr. Hunt's) view, that would not constitute an inducement to them to vote for any particular party. Not having had the advantage of legal advice, however, he was unable to state whether the Circular did infringe the principle in question; but the matter should be inquired into. At present he was not prepared to rescind the Order. As to the hours of voting, no such measure as that indicated by the hon. Member was at pre-sent under the consideration of the Government.
 MR. HUNT , in reply, said, that the  Raleigh 1032
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, he was not disposed, under the present circum-stances, to raise any objection to the passing of the Bill, nor would he on that occasion make any remarks as to the general expediency of postponing the period at which the Act of last year was to come into operation; but, before the Bill was read a second time, he wished to point out an objection which he hoped his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General would be able to meet. The Act of last year was to have come into operation on the 2nd of November, 1874, which day was chosen by consent of the Whole House in the last Parliament as being the most convenient day on which a radical change in our legal procedure could with propriety come into effect. Therefore, if the present measure merely postponed the coming into operation of the Act to the 2nd of November next year, he should raise no objection to the proposal. But that was not the course intended to be taken. The Bill proposed that the Act should come into operation on the 1st of November, 1875, "or on such earlier day as Her Majesty may by Order in Council appoint." That was giving power to the Executive Government to cause the Act to come into operation on
 1040
 SIR HENRY JAMES  said, he interposed reluctantly, but he must contend that the full question turned on the power given by the 8th and 9th clauses of the Bill, and the way in which the alteration was to be effected by the Amendment, which was one entirely of procedure and not of amendment of the law. To use a Common Law illustration, the Amendment merely gave one the right to issue a Writ. With respect to a Faculty, when a question came before a Judge, it was open to him to consider
 1066
 MR. RAIKES  proposed, as an Amendment, in page 8, line 9, to leave out the words "gratuitously, with the exception of stamp duties," in order to insert the words, "if unopposed, on payment of such a fee not exceeding two guineas as shall be prescribed by the Rules and Orders."
 MR. RICHARD : Sir, I have not thought it my duty to take any part in the discussion on the clauses of this Bill, as I deemed it more respectful to the members of the Church of England to leave the matters which concerned them so intimately entirely in their hands. But the question before us now is one which touches the interests of Nonconformists, and I wish to say a few words upon it. I feel grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), for the gallant fight he has made for the principle embodied in his
 1049 catena patrum "I perceive no such distinction of the commonwealth and the Church that they should be counted as it were two several bodies, governed with divers laws and divers magistrates.… The Commonwealth of England is not distinct from the Church of England." "The Church is not a distinct state and order of men, but only the Commonwealth turned Christian." "He knew no difference, as to the persons of whom they are composed, between the Church and the State; the Church is the State and the State is the Church." 1050 "The Church would have no right to continue established if she became merely congregational; that was, if she ceased to he the Church of the parish or of all the parishioners, whether they accepted her ministrations or not."—[3  Hansard 1051 à fortiori 1052
 MR. BUTT  said, he wished to say a word in explanation of a matter some-what personal. When the right hon. Gentleman said that when the Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant went to Ireland, the only complaint made to him was about the River Shannon, he (Mr. Butt) must remind the right hon. Gentleman that the second night of the Session he moved an Amendment to the Address, complaining of the operation of these very Coercion Acts, and in it, he made no allusion whatever to the unruliness of the River Shannon, which like a great many other instances of unruliness, was to be attributed to the mistakes of English officials.
 MR. BUTT  said, he had availed him-self since the adjournment of the House that (Friday) morning at a quarter to 4 o'clock, of the opportunity of consulting with those hon. Friends who usually acted with him, and he was happy to say that he was then able to announce the conclusion at which they had unanimously arrived with reference to the Amendments which had been placed upon the Paper; but before he did so, he hoped the House would bear with him if he adverted to the previous history of the measure before them. The Bill was introduced in the ordinary way as a Continuance Bill, and in that Bill, following, he admitted, the evil precedents of some recent years, were included Acts of very great importance, and among others Coercion Acts, vitally affecting the liberties of the Irish people
 1072 1073 1074 1075 1076
 MR. COWAN  trusted the hon. Member who had moved the Amendment would divide the House upon it.
 MR. HOLT  said, that as he was the author of the particular clause in the Bill to which the right hon. Gentleman had taken exception, it was right he should briefly state why he advocated the clause. As to the clause not being equitable, because the parties could not be heard before the Archbishop, he would call attention to the fact that parties could not be heard before the Bishop. The only question which a Bishop would have to decide was whether he would allow the charge to be brought, and the Archbishop had simply to express an opinion as to whether the reasons given by the Bishop were sound or unsound. He also contended that the Archbishop would have before him to and him in coming to a right decision all the information which a Bishop could command. It required, in his opinion, no very intimate knowledge of a diocese to be able to ascertain whether the law had or had not been broken, and what was required was that the Archbishop should have a power of review. There was nothing unconstitutional in that. In our judicial procedure grand juries had the power of reviewing the decision of the Justices. He ventured to think that a case in point, forbore the question was decided, without the accused being present. He would not go into questions of ecclesiastical law; but they all knew that an Archbishop had a certain control over the Bishops of his Province, that there was an appeal from the Bishop's Court to the Court of the Archbishop, and that, as the right hon. Gentleman had acknowledged, the Archbishop had a certain power of restraint over the action of the Bishops. It was admitted that he had such a power in regard to curates, in order that justice might better be done to the curates. Well, it was now intended by that clause that this power should be intrusted to the Archbishop, in order that justice might better be done to parishioners. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had just told the House that "in the event of the Suffragan refusing or neglecting to do his duty the Metropolitan was not only allowed but required, by
 1083 1084
 MR. HOLT  then moved an Amendment of which he had given Notice.
 MR. J. LOWTHER , in reply, said, that the more important Despatches, for the arrival of which the production of the Papers had been delayed, had not yet come to hand, and he was unable to say whether they would be laid on the
 1034
 MR. YEAMAN  said, he pledged him self to his constituents that he would vote in favour of any measure to repeal the law of patronage. This was a popular Bill in Scotland, and he was sure that the relieving of the Established Church of this incubus would be a great good. He hoped that the House would agree to the Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  thought that an elaborate plan would be required to carry out the system now proposed; such a plan as was not at present in existence. If they had a retired Judge who was willing to take the office,
 1058
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he thought the words proposed to be introduced were too ambiguous, and that they would lead to litigation. The proper expression was that which would guide the Ecclesiastical Judge in dealing with the question—namely, the word "unlawful." The Ecclesiastical Courts did not decide those matters with reference to the existence of a faculty from the Bishop, but simply with reference to the legality or illegality of the acts complained of, and Lord Stowell, who was the highest authority on such subjects, laid down the principle that even if some change had been made without a faculty, the question for the Court to determine was whether or not the thing was wrong in itself; and he (Dr. Ball) believed that the ecclesiastical law would be found quite adequate to remove everything that was really objectionable. The remarkable case of the tombstone inscribed "Pray for the souls of," was not decided with regard to a faculty, nor was the case of "Westerton  v
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he was in favour of striking out the Amendment which had been introduced into the Bill in Committee. Under that Amendment an appeal was to be given in favour of the prosecution, while it was to be withheld from the defendant if the decision were adverse to him. That was a principle totally the reverse of that which existed in the analogous cases of an Information by the Attorney General, the proceedings in a prosecution, or the office of the Judge promoted in ecclesiastical matters. He also opposed the Amendment inserted in the Committee, because it was unwise to place any Judge in such a position as that proposed by the Amendment. It would be a most dangerous principle to lay down that if the Bishop decided one way he would be safe from appeal; but that if he decided the reverse he would be exposed to reproof, and his decision might be reversed by a superior authority. Under the present law, if a Bishop refused to promote the office, &c, there was no appeal to the Archbishop. It was doubtful whether in such a case the Queen's Bench had power to issue a  mandamus 1093
 MR. DODSON  thought that in fixing the salary they would also consider the work which the Judge would have to do. Unless the Act should promote litigation the Judge would really have very little to do. If he were to be paid £4,000 a-year for deciding two or three cases within the twelve-month, as seemed likely to he the case, by the experience already gained during past years in the Provinces of York and Canterbury, then he would have one of the most valuable appointments in England, and would be paid for that amount of work more than any man who went before him, or any man who was likely to come after him. He thought the suggestion which had been made by the Government was a very good one, for they had found an eminent man who would accept the office without salary, and it would he unwise to name the amount of salary until they should know what would he the amount of work to he done under the Bill.
 MR. LEITH  said, he objected to the Amendment on two several grounds. First, that it was historically untrue; and, second, that this was an enacting, and not a declaratory Bill. With regard to the first point, he would draw the attention of the hon. Member for Dumbarton to the fact that the Bill was not a Bill, as described by the hon. Member for Fife, to repeal merely the Act of Anne. It was a Bill with a double aspect. Its object was, no doubt, to repeal the Act of Anne, and also Lord Aberdeen's Act; but it was intended, besides, to substitute by positive enactment a new body for electing the ministers of the Church of Scotland for that which existed previously. His hon. Friend had boldly asserted that he meant to restore to the Church of Scotland its ancient right, and therefore he asked, in his Amendment, for a declaration
 1097
 MR. J. G. TALBOT  asked the Post-master General, Whether it is true that the clerks in those departments of the Post Office which already enjoy the other bank holidays are not to be allowed a holiday on Monday next, August 3rd; and, if so, whether he does not consider that the clerks in the Savings Bank Department at any rate have a claim to the same holidays which are secured by law in all other banking establishments?
 MR. WHITWELL  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department,
 1033
 MR. DODDS  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Returns relative to the General Election ordered on the 20th March last will be presented; and, in case particulars have not yet been received from every county, division of county, and borough, to give the names of the counties, divisions of counties, and boroughs from which particulars have not been received, and to state what course he proposes to pursue with reference thereto?
 MR. DODDS  said, he very much regretted that the Government had thought it necessary to introduce the Bill at all. The Judicature Act of last Session introduced a most important reform into our Law Courts, and that reform was what the British public was prepared for; but they were now asked to allow this matter to stand over for another twelve months. Under the circumstances this appeared to him to be inevitable. He felt certain that this would cause great dissatisfaction, not merely in the profession, but amongst suitors and persons who took a deep interest in this question. He trusted the Attorney General would be able to respond to the appeal made to him by the hon. and learned Member for Taunton.
 MR. RONAYNE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Is the Government prepared to give an assurance that the case of the Irish National School Teachers will be considered during the recess, with a view of introducing a measure early next Session for the improvement of their condition; and, is it proposed, in estimating the average salary of the teachers, to take into account money earned by them outside school hours in the Science and Art Department or otherwise?
 MR. DILLWYN (for Sir JOHN LUBBOCK)  asked Mr. Attorney General, Whether by the new rules under the Judicature Act the Bank Holidays will in future be observed in the Law Offices?
 MR. DILLWYN , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 2, line 38, to leave out the words "has transmitted to the bishop, under his hand, the declaration contained in Schedule (A), and who "said, the term "parishioner" would be very much circumscribed and narrowed if it were only held to include those who were prepared to subscribe such a document. He protested against a wider distinction than that which now existed being drawn between Nonconformists and members of the Church of England. His own opinion was that parishioners ought not to be confined solely to members of the Church of England, but the term ought to include all members of other denominations who were living in the parish. Were the scope of the clause limited as it stood in the Bill fresh opportunities of aggression would be given to Churchmen against the Nonconformists. He hoped the House would reconsider the determination it had formerly come to, and would agree to his Amendment. If it did so, the Bill would be strengthened, and it would meet with much more acceptance in the country. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the Amendment.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said, the historical statements were either true or not true. If they were false, it was not worthy of the House to accept them. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had said nothing to answer the allegation that the statements were historically false. He, however, had said the Act of 1690 was practically the same as this Act. He (Mr. Lyon Playfair) denied that altogether; that Act set forth that the heritors of the parish, together with the elders, were to name a person to be
 1099
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING , in moving as an Amendment, in Schedule 14, page 3, column 1, to except "19 and 20 Vic, c. 36, Preservation of the Peace, Ireland," said, he and his Friends were bound to enter their protest against the Act, but it was the last division they would have on the Bill.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that he had already given an assurance in a debate on this subject, that the case of these teachers should be considered during the Recess with a view of improving their condition and to determine from what funds the means of that improvement should be derived. As to the second part of the hon. Member's Question, that matter would have to be considered.
 MR. CALLAN  said, he had given Notice of an Amendment to extend the right of carrying arms to certain classes of persons who did not at present enjoy it, but he would not press the Motion, unless the Government accepted it.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, the Bill would not in the slightest degree alter the law. He had never said that this Bill was merely confined to procedure, but had always recommended it as a measure to enable the law to be enforced. He believed the hon. and
 1064
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY , having observed that he had on a former occasion stated that there had been some delay in the business of the Arches Court in consequence of the Dean of Arches occupying another office, said, he had received a communication from the Judge of the Court of Admiralty to the effect that, although he had had a great amount of work to get through in that Court, he did not allow it to cause any delay in the proceedings in the Court of Arches. As to the clause under discussion, he must confess that he did not attach to it so much importance as appeared to be given either on one side or the other. It was not in the original Bill; but yet, there could be no doubt that it had been supported by a very large majority. As he had before said, he had perfect confidence in the discretion of the Bishop; but he could not at the same time see that any evil was likely to arise if an Appeal were given to the Archbishop. It was contended, he might add, that such an appeal was unprecedented, but under the 1st and 2nd Vic. there were a number of cases—such, for instance, as that of non-residence—in which a Bishop exercised his discretion, and in which an appeal lay from him to the Archbishop.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved, as an Amendment, in page 4, line 19, the omission of the words "forbidden by law," with reference to alterations in, or additions to, the fabric, ornaments, or furniture of a church; with a view of substituting in the same line, after "made," the words "without a faculty from the ordinary authorizing or confirming such alteration or addition."
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  moved, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 14, to omit the words "of Her Majesty's High Court of Justice or Her Majesty's Imperial Court of Appeal," and to insert—
 1054 "of any court to which the jurisdiction of any such court has been or may hereafter he transferred by authority of Parliament."
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY , in moving, as an Amendment, in page 1, line 15, after "and," to insert "to the Channel Islands," said, he had ascertained at the Home Office that that had been done in the case of other Bills without consent being obtained, and that no objection had ever been made.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY , in pro-posing as an Amendment, the addition of the following new clause:—
 (Provisions relating to college chapels, &c.) "The duties appointed under this Act to he performed by the Bishop of the diocese shall in the case of the chapels of the colleges and halls in the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Durham, he performed by the visitor of such college or hall, and in the case of the university church of any of the said universities when used by such university, or in the case of the Temple Church, or of the chapels of Lincoln's Inn or Gray's Inn, the said duties shall be per-formed by the archbishop of the province. The persons entitled to make a representation in relation to the chapel of any such colleges or halls shall be three persons who shall be doctors of divinity, law, or medicine, or masters of arts who have, and for one year next before taking any proceeding under this Act, have had their names on the books of such college or hall. The persons entitled to make a representation in relation to the university church of any of the said universities when used by such university shall be three persons who shall he doctors of divinity, law, or medicine, or masters of arts, who have and for one year next before taking any proceedings under this Act have had their names on the hooks of any college or hall in such university. The persons entitled to make a representation in relation to the Temple Church shall be three barristers at law of three years' standing of either the Inner or Middle Temple, and in relation to the chapels of Lincoln's Inn or Gray's Inn shall be three barristers at law of three years' standing of the said inns respectively. If any complaint shall be made concerning the ornaments, furniture, or decorations of any chapel of the colleges or halls of any of the said universities, or of the Temple Church, or of the chapels of Lincoln's Inn or Gray's Inn, the person complained of shall be the person responsible for the custody of such church or chapel, and the visitor or the archbishop of the province, or the judge, as the case may be, shall have power to carry into effect any direction contained in any monition at the cost of the person responsible for the
 1046
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, he would not oppose the Amendment, although he thought the maximum fixed was somewhat high.
 MR. GRANTHAM  said, that although he had on a former occasion voted for the clause, he should feel it to be his duty after listening to the debate that evening to vote against it, inasmuch as he was of opinion that where the question involved not a matter of law, as he
 1094
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had told them that on that question extremes met—an observation which he thought exceedingly well founded, for on that subject extremes did meet, and the Motion of the right hon. Member for
 1086 1087 "That they, the said clergy, nor any of them from henceforth shall presume to attempt to allege claims or put in force any constitution or ordinances, provincial or synodal, or any other canon; nor shall they enact, promulge, or execute any such canons, constitutions, or ordinances provincial." Nolumus leges Angliœ mutari 1088 primâ facie 1089 1090
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  thought the Amendment a very good one.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  rose to a point of Order. Could a hon. Member discuss in the House what had taken place in Committee?
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT , in rising to propose, as an Amendment, in page 3, line 36, after "Faculties" to add—
 "And whereas it is expedient that the judge shall receive a fixed salary, forming a charge on fees received by ecclesiastical officers; but until the laws relating to such fees shall have been amended by Parliament, and a fee fund or fee funds established, temporary provision must be otherwise made for the payment of the said salary: Be it Enacted, That any salary or emoluments which such judge shall be entitled to receive from the said offices, other than the office of judge under this Act, shall be paid over by him to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for England, and all fees payable in respect of proceedings before the said judge under this Act shall also be paid over to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. The Ecclesiastical Commissioners shall pay to the said judge by equal quarterly payments such salary as shall be assigned by the Queen, by Order in Council, not exceeding the sum of four thousand pounds per annum. Every such payment, or so much thereof as may exceed the salary and emoluments which the judge may be entitled to receive from the aforesaid offices, together with the fees to be paid over to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners under this section, shall be treated as an advance to be repaid from fees received by ecclesiastical officers, in such manner as Parliament may hereafter determine." 1055 1056
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman's learning was thrown away, as it had nothing to do with the Amendment. Complaints might be made against some ornament or object in a church which could not perhaps be said to be strictly unlawful in itself, but which might be removed because it was put up without a Faculty. He would give as an example
 1063
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, if the Lord Advocate could restore the right of the heritors, elders, and congregations to elect the minister, he would deserve the support of the House; but it appeared to him that this Amendment went no further than one of his own, which had been declared to be wrong.
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  regretted the course which the Lord Advocate had considered it his duty to take.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he thought the postponement of the Amendment of the Judicature Act of last year was exceedingly wise, and absolutely necessary. It would give time for the consideration of what was really a now question. By the original Judicature Act it was provided that there should be only one step of appeal That was condemned by all experienced persons as a system which did not exist in any country in the world, and which must result in a complete stoppage of the legal business of the country. By the present amending Bill that was sought to be altered. It proposed that there should be not one Court of Appeal, but two, the second one to be an Intermediate Court. That raised quite a new question before the House. There being a second step of appeal, where were cases from that Court to go for ultimate result? The Government had received this  damnosa hœreditas
 MR. ERRINGTON (for Mr. MOORE)  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is true that two dangerous lunatics named George and Owen Doherty are still at large in the neighbourhood of Carndonagh and county of Donegal, in spite of the earnest remonstrances of the inhabitants of the district; and, whether the Government intend to take any further notice of the Memorial ad-dressed to them on the subject?
 MR. SPEAKER  ruled that the hon. Member was not in Order, the question before the House being that this Bill be now considered.
 MR. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN  said, the right hon. and learned Lord said it was desirable to make the Bill as palatable as possible to the people of Scotland; but it ought not to be made palatable at the cost of historical truth or of constitutional principle. He maintained that if the Amendment were accepted, they would sacrifice both. Even if, as was alleged, but as was not the case, by the Act of 1690, the elections were left to the congregations, that was qualified in this Bill by the regulations to be laid down by the General Assembly. But he went rather on the question of constitutional principle. The Amendment was to make the Bill more palatable by substituting the words "is declared to be" instead of "shall be." Why should they be so squeamish about using the word "shall?" The reason was, that it was supposed to be distasteful to some people in Scotland that the House of Commons should appear to dictate to them as to how they should elect their minister. But he maintained that that was a right which Parliament possessed. Parliament could do as it liked with regard to the Established Church; it could say what she should believe and what she should do. Then, if that were the state of things, why should they take all this trouble in order to save the conscience of some people of the Free Church?
 SIR HENRY HAVELOCK  supported the Amendment. If Ritualism merely meant outward ceremonies and gestures, he, for one, should not feel inclined to meddle with it at all; but it was in reality an attempt on the part of those who were bound by the most sacred obligations to uphold the Church of England to introduce doctrines which the country rejected three centuries ago, and he, in reference to this matter, claimed the right to forget that he was a Nonconformist and to recollect that he was an Englishman. By attempting to narrow the definition of the word "parishioner," members of the Church shut out some who were their warmest friends, and who would be their staunchest allies in the struggle in which they were engaged. The Dissenters did not envy or desire to partake in the endowments of the Church of England, but on the question now before the House they claimed to be members of that Church.
 SIR HENRY DRUMMOND WOLFF  said, he would like to ask his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Oxford, if the clause were to be carried out, what would be the case in the dioceses of Canterbury and York, where the Archbishops and the Bishops were the same persons?
 SIR JOHN KENNAWAY  said, al-though he could not support the Amendment, he had no wish to narrow the boundaries of the Church of England. He rejoiced to think that all Nonconformists were members of that Church and had a right to attend her services and to be buried in her graveyards. But the feelings of the clergy on this matter should be considered. The discussion of the Bill had generated a feeling of irritation among a portion of the people of this country, and the feelings of the clergy on this matter ought to be taken into account. The clergy ought not to be enabled, through any illadvised alteration of the Bill, to say that they had been placed at the mercy of those who did not attend or conform to the services of the Church of England.
 MR. MOWBRAY  supposed there was no one in the House who did not wish to secure the services of a Judge of the highest ability, and that he should be adequately paid. But he hoped the House would not sanction the dangerous course proposed in the Amendment moved by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford. The funds at the disposal of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were intended for the relief of spiritual destitution in populous places, and it would be impolitic and unjust to appropriate them to the payment of a Judge's salary. He might also remind the House that in the Court of Arches last year there were only three or four cases, such as would come under the provisions of this Bill, heard and decided, so that he could not help thinking a salary of £3,000 or £4,000 a-year was rather too much. At all events, it could not he paid out of the funds at the disposal of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that any comparison between the Returns of Revenue from the Post Office and Telegraph Services up to the 26th of July this year as compared with the Returns up to the 26th of July last year would be very fallacious, because there were various circumstances which disturbed the comparison. In the first place, irregularities had occurred in the Post Office which were not adjusted last year, and, in the second place, a new system had been en-forced by which repayments with regard to the expenses of collection were made monthly, instead of quarterly. He would prefer at present not to give any answer with regard to the precise statement of accounts. He was afraid that if he entered into any statement on the subject it might mislead, and he would wait until the end of the quarter, when a fair comparison could be made.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, the question raised by his hon. Friend was of great importance. It was to declare that that was the law which never was the law. In taking that course, the Legislature would discredit itself. The right hon. and learned Lord said the opposition came from the enemies of the
 1100
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE , in moving as an Amendment in page 3, to leave out from the word "that" in line 7, to the word "parish "in line 8, said, he considered it was important in the interest of the Church that the Amendment should be inserted, and, moreover, it would clear away a serious blot in the Bill.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  held that it would be a disgrace if they were to pass the Bill without making a definite arrangement
 1059
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, the Irish people had nothing to thank the Government for in this matter. They were simply giving them money which already belonged to them.
 MR. M. T. BASS  complained of the arrangement. Last night the Bill was fixed for to-day, and many hon. Members who were interested in it had remained in town in order to take part in the discussion. Now they were told that the Bill was to be deferred. He thought hon. Members had been hardly used, and he complained that a Bill of such importance had been brought forward at so late a period. He knew the Government had a majority which would enable them to do anything—they might
 1106
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  would explain the reason. The Solicitor General had charge of the Bill, and within the last few minutes he had received a communication from him stating that he must unavoidably be absent. Another reason was that before the meeting of the House the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) took the opportunity of saying a few words to him upon the matter, and had made suggestions which he considered to be very valuable, and such as might lead to the removal of any further opposition to the Bill. These suggestions, if adopted, might be dealt with in Committee, and as it was probable that by Monday the Government would be able to consider and adopt them, it was not unlikely that a saving of time would be effected.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as there had been a Notice of Amendment to the Bill, it could not be taken after half-past 12, which was the reason it had been so often on the Orders.
 MR. MACARTNEY : It would be impossible strictly to comply with the terms of the Motion. The right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland could not tell what were the present addresses of the clergymen who had compounded.
 MR. MACDONALD  said, he hoped the hon. Member (Mr. Bass) would go to a division, and considered that the Government ought not to attempt to smuggle a Bill of this kind through the House when a large number of the Members had left.
 MR. E. JENKINS  moved for a Return of the number, names, and present residences or livings of Clergymen and Ecclesiastics of whatever grade in the Irish Church who up to the end of July, 1874, have, under the Irish Church Act, commuted and compounded; stating the annual value of their livings, the amount of commutation agreed on, and the amount of composition paid in each case. The hon. Member said, that as
 1108
 MR. E. JENKINS  regretted that he must press for the entire Return. The answer of the right hon. and learned Gentleman simply evaded the real question—the main point being that part of the Return which the right hon. and learned Gentleman refused to give. It must be remembered that the Irish Church Representative Body formed a large part of the Synod, and that when they voted together they could prevent the laity from obtaining these Returns. In point of fact, the laity were unable to ascertain how far their rights were being bartered
 1111
 MR. SYNAN  said, his right hon. and learned Friend had passed by the real question involved in the Motion before the House. It did not deal with the clergy, or with the Synod, or with the relations between the clergy and the Synod, but it dealt with that for which
 1110
 MR. SYNAN  said, he did not clearly understand what part of the Returns it was that the Government refused to grant.
 MR. SYNAN : You have the individual amounts of the computations and the bulk sum.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that this was a most important Bill; and it was by no moans understood, either by the House or the country, how immense an effect it would have on the poorer classes. If, however, it had not involved matters of imprisonment, he should have said less about it; but, as it greatly added to the powers of County Court Judges to inflict imprisonment, he pressed the Government to postpone the Bill to next Session.
 SIR HENRY JAMES  suggested that the Bill should be taken early on Thursday, and remarked that it had already been six or seven times on the Orders.
 MR. BUTT  complained of the narrowness of the measure, and expressed a hope that the restrictions which now existed would be abolished.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) : I agree to give that.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) : I object to the word "compounded." That is a transaction between the Church and the clergy, and is not a transaction of the Commissioners. I am quite willing to give the names of all the clergymen who have commuted, and the total amount paid, but I can give nothing beyond that.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he had already stated that he would give every information as to the Church Commissioners. It was only that part of the Returns which related to the Representative Body which he was unable to give.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, that these restrictions were proposed to meet the equitable rights of certain counties in Ireland, and submitted that as the clause had been carefully considered it should not be disturbed.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  was understood to say that he had no objection to produce the Returns moved for so far as it was in the power of the Government to do so. It would be impossible, however, to comply with that part of the Motion which required the production of Returns in reference to the compositions made by the Irish Church Representative Body with the clergy who had commuted. The position of matters was this—In making a composition the sum paid was the actual market value of each life, and if there was the slightest error in calculating the duration of these lives there would be a failure of the fund provided for paying the annuities. The market value was regulated by the tables which were founded upon an average of the whole lives of the English community; but as they did not represent the real duration of these particular lives, the consequence was that it was absolutely essential for the safety of this gigantic scheme of annuities that there should be a largo margin in hand. The Church Body had the power of relieving themselves from those annuities by a process of composition, and he contended that this had been done in the interest of the Church itself. The Representative Body were bound to account to the Synod by the Queen's Charter for the sums expended. There being a regular Parliament of the Church in this Synod, which was held at Dublin, the information now asked for should be obtained through the Synod; but the Government could not embark in the inquiry. The late Church of Ireland was in no respect different from a Dissenting body. It occupied the same position as the Roman Catholic or the Presbyterian, or numerous other Dissenting sects, and was in no way connected with the State, or under its control.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL)  said, he would move to leave out the words "and compounded."
 MR. LOCKE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ROEBUCK , in seconding the Motion, said, he was somewhat pleased when he found that the Bill was to be discussed to-day, because the state of his health would not permit him to remain late at night. Under the proposed arrangement, however, the Bill would not come on until midnight. He wanted to know from the Attorney General why the Bill was to be postponed. They had assembled for the purpose of discussing the Bill, and now suddenly they were told it was to be deferred. He wanted to know the reason why.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad the Bill was put off till Monday, and he
 1107
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING , who had intended to move on the Motion for going into Committee on the Bill, that the House resolve itself into the said Committee that day three months, regretted that he had found it impossible to arrive in the House soon enough to propose his Motion. He complained of the manner in which, upon successive stages, he had been prevented from stating his objections to the Bill. It was one of the most extraordinary which had ever been brought before the House of Commons. A Resolution had been passed that Session on the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Synan) stating that the sea fisheries of Ireland were in a decaying state and ought to be aided by the State. Now, the Government, in order to carry out that Resolution, had seized a fund which had been appropriated by Act of Parliament to other purposes. In the year 1822, when there was a famine in Ireland, the good citizens of London collected, under the King's letter, £350,000 for that famine. Of that sum £300,000 was spent and £50,000 remained. The donors of the gift said that that sum of £50,000 should be divided between the 10 counties in Ireland which they thought merited it most. County trustees were appointed, and in 1827 a committee from the county of Cork was named, presided over jointly by the Roman Catholic and Protestant Bishops. The sum of £5,000 was devoted to the building of agricultural schools and to instruct the people in agricultural science. That money was never given to the county of Cork. The committee in London, finding the scheme did not work well, called in the several sums which were then in the hands of trustees, and under the provisions of 11 & 12  Vict 1105
 MR. W. SHAW  moved the omission of a sub-section under which the advances to the different counties would be restricted to certain proportions. If the industries of one county did not stand in need of assistance, the money in hand ought, he contended, to be available for the purposes of a neighbouring county.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, that the Artillery stationed at Woolwich did leave there and exercise over Plumstead Common, inasmuch as they were compelled to do so in consequence of not having sufficient space on Woolwich Common. As to the second part of the hon. Gentleman's Question, his answer was, that the legal advisers of the War Office were consulted in 1862
 1145
 MR. GRANT DUFF : It was sixmonths after your arrival in India.
 MR. BECKETT-DENISON  said, that it was not possible to accept the Amendment without taking out the pith and marrow of the Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had one or two Amendments to move in Committee, and he should therefore propose that the order for the third reading be discharged and that the Bill be recommitted
 1222
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  hoped the hon. Gentleman would first allow the Bill to go into Committee.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, I have decided what I think will be the best means of relieving the traffic. The plan, which it will be my duty to submit, and which I hope may meet with the approval of Parliament, is designed to divert a large part of the traffic by making a road across the Park from Hamilton Place to Grosvenor Place. This road will be 700 feet long, and GO feet wide, and will be made with the easy gradient of 1 in 60, passing under Constitution Hill by means of a bridge; that bridge will be 16 feet high over the proposed road, that being the height prescribed for railways when passing over a road. The alteration in the gradient of the proposed bridge, as regards Constitution Hill, will be scarcely perceptible. By permission of the Serjeant-at-Arms, the model will be placed in one of the Committee Rooms to-morrow; and as many hon. Members may be leaving London, I have placed in the library to-day the plan from which the model was made.
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, he should like to know from the noble Lord whether it was likely the work would commence early in the Autumn, so as to remove the inconvenience as soon as possible?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that as the Question involved an expenditure of public money, he could not give the hon. Gentleman any promise, without
 1148
 MR. GOLDSMID  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is not the case that it has been for some years the constant practice of Lord Chancellors to communicate with the corporations of boroughs before new magistrates are appointed; why this practice was not observed in the case of the recent appointments at Rochester; and, whether, with reference to the Home Secretary's statement as to the political opinions of the Justices of Rochester, any record exists of the political opinions of justices; and, if so, on what authority he made that statement?
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS : I have, Sir, communicated since the Question was put on the Paper with my noble Friend the Lord Chancellor. He is most ready at any time to receive and give the fullest consideration to any representations which municipal corporations may desire to make to him as to the necessity for any addition to the Bench, and as to the names of persons which they may desire to submit to his consideration with a view to their appointment. At the same time, he considers that the responsibility of selecting and appointing proper persons for the Bench belongs to him, and not to the municipal corporation or any other person or persons; nor can he admit the right of any corporation or persons to require him to make a communication to them previous to appointing magistrates. Of course, he cannot undertake to say what has been the practice of previous Lord Chancellors. The magistrates of Rochester must be very extraordinary persons indeed, if they think their political opinions are not known. It is very well known what are the political opinions of magistrates in the county with which I am connected.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he should repeat the Question as to the authority on which the Homo Secretary made a statement respecting the political opinions of the justices of Rochester.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX,  in reply, said, the attention of the Office of Works had for two years been constantly called to the insufficient accommodation at Bow Street Police Court. It was true that a sum of money had been expended last year under the sanction of Parliament towards the purchase of a new site in Castle Street, Leicester Square; but the Secretary of State for the Home Department had requested him to cease looking to that site, as another part of London would be more convenient for carrying on the Police duties of the Metropolis.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that when the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (1873) Suspension Bill got into Committee, he would explain the course which the Government intended to take with regard to it. With reference to the Bills of Sale Amendment Bill and the County Courts Bill, which stood upon the Paper for a second reading, he might explain that those were measures which had been introduced by the Lord Chancellor, in consequence of numerous representations made to him from different parts of the country. They had, however, arrived at a period of the Session when it would be impossible to proceed with them, the more especially as they could not be taken after half-past 12, in consequence of Notices for their rejection having been placed upon the Paper. He should in consequence, when these Bills were reached, move that the Orders be discharged, and that the Bills be withdrawn.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I wish also to say a word to remove a misapprehension. I should be very sorry that there should be any misconception about the expectations of the Archbishops in regard to the payment of the salary of the Judge out of ecclesiastical fees. I think it may be perfectly possible that these fees may be available and entirely sufficient for the purpose, but in speaking of fees in the recent debate as being entirely unreal, it was my intention to signify a different opinion, and to state that if the salary had been fixed upon the Common Fund of the Ecclesiastical
 1154
 MR. SCOUREFIELD  said, he had great pleasure in expressing his appreciation of the generous and wise concessions made by the promoters in postponing the date at which the Bill was to come into operation, as he never liked to give persons the credit of being martyrs. He regretted the appeal to the Archbishop, and he objected to it on two grounds. In the first place, by the old rule, an appeal lay against a conviction, but here there was to be an appeal against an acquittal. In the next place, as there was no higher authority than the Archbishop, it was clear that in the archiepiscopal diocese there would be no appeal from his decision. At least, he knew of no greater authority to appeal to unless it were the Archbishop's wife. That Amendment he considered to be a great defect in the measure.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, that, being one of those who did not as a matter of speculation and philosophy believe that Church Establishments could be indefinitely
 1167 days Et quid volo nisi at
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, that speaking for himself, he thought he might congratulate the House and the country that they had now arrived at the last stage of the Bill, and that all these discussions, which had no doubt seriously touched the matters men had most at heart, had been conducted with the greatest possible moderation. He should not have risen but for a remark which fell from his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for West Sussex (Colonel Barttelot). It was true that he differed from his hon. and gallant Friend on one of the minor details of the Bill; but he believed that no one who had taken part in these discussions had spoken more strongly than
 1172
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would endeavour to avoid even that partial reference to general topics of great breadth and importance which had been made by hon. Members who had taken part in the debate. Since the speech in which he endeavoured to open the broader aspects of the question, he had deliberately and advisedly confined himself to points of a strictly practical character, for he owned he was not so sanguine of the satisfactory effect of the great amount of ecclesiastical legislation by that House which some hon. Gentlemen, including his right hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Horsman), were looking forward to with eagerness and avidity. He confessed he thought that even the partial conversion of the House of Commons into an ecclesiastical Synod—constituted as it was, and appointed for other purposes—would be found to strain very severely not only the temper of the House, but its position and its working in the Constitution. As between the two opinions which had been expressed—one that the House, proceeding freely and readily in that direction, would greatly strengthen the National Establishment—
 1173 1174 1175 1176
 MR. GRANT DUFF  offered congratulations on the manner in which the noble Lord had told the financial story of India for the year, and upon the fact that, notwithstanding the dark shadow which had overspread India, the financial result was, on the whole, very satisfactory.
 1205 1206
 MR. GRANT DUFF : I thought, Sir, I had built a bridge over which the right hon. Gentleman might retreat; but, as he has taken up the matter in a
 1209 "From this summary it appears that a work, for which an allotment of 3½ lacs—that is, £35,000, was originally granted, on the express instructions of the Government of India that that amount should not he exceeded, was constructed on such a scale that the Government became committed to an expenditure exceeding 9½ lacs, before any design or estimate had been approved; and that notwithstanding the censure conveyed in the remarks of the Government of India and the Secretary of State on the breach of rules involved in the action of the Government of Bombay, a similar course was subsequently pursued, until the expenditure actually amounted to six lacs (£60,000) in excess of that for which authority was so unwillingly conveyed on the former occasion; while it has only been kept within its ultimate limit by carrying out the subsidiary works under a separate account, in opposition to your Excellency's instructions."
 MR. GRANT DUFF : It went on for six months after you arrived,
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that it was evident from the observations of the hon. Member for Elgin, and from the speeches of right hon. Gentlemen below, that if the occupants of the front Opposition bench had been in office, this Bill would never have boon passed. As an independent Liberal Member, he desired to thank the Prime Minister for the plain and unvarnished way in which he had dealt with the measure, and also the hon. and learned Member for Oxford for the cordial assistance he had rendered the Government in passing a Bill which he believed would have a most peaceful and healing effect upon the Church. It was most satisfactory that a question of that nature, so calculated to arouse feeling, should have been discussed with so little excitement. That circumstance was due to two causes—in the first place to the wise discernment which had placed the conduct of the measure in the hands of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder; and, secondly, to the good sense of the opponents of the measure, who, seeing what was the feeling of the House with regard to it, did not persist in opposing the Bill altogether, but confined themselves to amending it in Committee. But, what was to him the greatest source of satisfaction and an occasion for the highest congratulation was, the strong, unmistakeable, and irresistible determination displayed by the House to uphold the principles of the Reformation, and to insist that the
 1170
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Committee back again to the important question before them, and he was sorry that the consideration of it had been interrupted in the manner it had been. If they contrasted the finances of India 30 years ago with their present condition, and found that every item of revenue had increased, the House need be under no alarm, the more especially when, notwithstanding the Famine, they had heard a statement from the noble Lord which his predecessor in office regarded as most encouraging. He could not agree with the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. Forsyth) in regretting the imposition of the duties on stamps in India, seeing that they brought in upwards of £2,000,000 to the Exchequer. He was delighted to hear the testimony which his noble Friend the Under Secretary of State had borne to the administration of Lord Northbrook and
 1211
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON , in rising to reply to the various questions which had been put to him, said, he had consulted the Secretary of the Finance Department of India as to the time at which the figures could be sent to this country, and the Secretary was of opinion that in another year, the figures might be sent home in sufficient time to admit of the statement being made in June. He (Lord George Hamilton) was much afraid, however, that the great pressure of business in Parliament at that period of the Session would always prevent the Indian Budget being submitted earlier than July. With regard to public works, the Despatch which had been referred to, did not say that no public work of any kind should be constructed out of borrowed money, but laid it down that only works the revenue of which would be equal to the interest of the money borrowed for their execution, should come under the class of public works extraordinary. Famine preventing works were to be executed out of the ordinary income of the year; but if it was absolutely necessary to complete them in a certain time, they would be completed out of borrowed money, but included in the ordinary expenditure of the year. The hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) had asked what amount was expended in provincial services in 1874–5. The provincial revenues and allotments were estimated at £6,130,000, and the expenditure at £6,224,000. The expenditure connected with Cooper's Hill College, which had been alluded to, was caused by certain alterations and additions made to the institution, the cost of which must be regarded as a charge on capital. The actual receipts of the College came within £6,000 of the total expenditure incurred for maintaining it. The very able document written by Sir John Strachey, to which reference had been made, was not an official statement of the views of the India Office, but was the result of the writer's own experience. The subjects to which the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. Forsyth) had directed attention—namely,
 1217
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON,  while agreeing entirely with the object of the hon. Member, that whoever was appointed to the office should direct his attention to the finances of the Public Works Department, thought that the Amendment would prevent the person appointed from being paramount in his own Department.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON,  in reply to Mr. BECKETT-DENISON, explained that, although it would be necessary, in the first instance, to appoint a new member of Council; yet if, after the appointment, the Governor General was of opinion that his Council did not require an augmentation, the number of his Council would remain unchanged.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON,  in moving a Resolution relating to the Revenue Accounts of India for the year ending the 31st day of March, 1873, said, that the Annual Statement which was made in reference to Indian finance differed from that which was made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, inasmuch as the Indian Statement dealt with the figures of three years instead of two years. In accordance with that practice, the figures which he had to place before the Committee, connected with the Revenue and Expenditure of India, were the Actual Accounts for 1872–3, the Regular Estimate for 1873–4, and the Budget Estimate for 1874–5. Complaints had
 1178 1179 1180 versus 1181 "Throughout the Chief Commissioner's tour it has seemed to him that the Customs line has been felt by the people as a greater grievance than all other grievances put together; no one can travel along the valleys of the Nerbudda and the Wurdha without being liable to constant search by endless Customs officers of low degree, posted at very short intervals, armed with iron search-forks of the nature of cheese-tasters." 1182 1183 1184 1185 1186 1187 1188 1189 1190 1191 "Of all the calamities which beset and waylay the life of man, this comes nearest to our heart, and is that wherein the proudest of us all feels himself to be nothing more than he is." 1192
 LORD HENEY SCOTT  wished to say that with regard to the part he had taken in the discussion of the Bill in Committee, he had not been actuated by any desire to obstruct the progress of the measure, his sole object being to make it as good a Bill as possible. He believed that no party in the Church, and certainly not the High Church party, desired to defy legitimate authority. There was, no doubt, an excrescence of that party which had indulged in extravagant observance of ritual; but that extravagance had arisen, partly from the dubious state of the law, and the difficulty of enforcing it when unsatisfactorily ascertained. He trusted the Bill would clear up any misapprehension which might exist as to the state of the law, and that those who now constituted themselves the sole judges of what was right, would render it the obedience which was due from them.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : Mr. Speaker—I, like my right hon. Friend opposite, endeavoured to facilitate and not to oppose the passing of the Bill in Committee, as soon as I realized that it was the wish of the House, mistaken as I own I think that wish to have been. 1159 1160 1161 1162 pari passu 1163 1164
 MR. ALFRED MARTEN  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether his attention has been called to a recent outbreak of typhoid fever at Clayton West, near Huddersfield; and, whether he is aware what measures have been taken by the Local Sanitary Board of that place to ascertain the cause of the outbreak, and prevent the spread of the disease?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think it will be for the convenience of the House if I read a letter which I have just received with reference to the office of Judge under the Bill. It is as follows—
 "House of Lords, S.W., August 3, 1874. "Sir,—We have the honour to inform you that we intend to submit to the Crown, through you, the name of Lord Penzance for the office of Judge under the 'Public Worship Regulation Bill,' in case that measure shall become law. 1153 "Lord Penzance has consented to undertake the office, subject to the provisions as to salary and emoluments which are embodied in the Bill, and which may hereafter be made by Parliament. "We think that it may be convenient to the Government to be made aware of this, even before the passing of the Bill, and we feel confident that the name of Lord Penzance will have the approval of the Crown. "We believe that we shall be able to submit to the Government a plan by which a salary might be provided for the Judge by a rearrangement of ecclcsiastical fees.—We are, Sir, your faithful servants, "A. C. CANTUAR. "W. EBOR. "Right Hon. Benjamin Disraeli, M.P."
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : Sir, the subject of ocean roads has long been under the careful consideration of the Board of Trade; but it is found very difficult and not desirable to fix a compulsory rule. In most trades, and in the Atlantic particularly, the route is necessarily affected by the season. Ocean roads are not so important as roads in more confined waters, as the English and Irish Channels; and the ocean route adopted by the Cunard Company ceases to be of use at the two extremeties, where most needed. The subject is surrounded with difficulties, and the Board of Trade do not as yet see their way to recommending legislation on it. The
 1152
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, as one of the majority who rejoice in the passing of the Bill, I am quite ready to concede to the minority, its opponents, that on the whole, they have let us off easily. I would not say anything so disrespectful to those right hon. and hon. Gentlemen as to imply that they have not manifested their usual ability in conducting their opposition; but the truth is, that this is not a Government measure, so much as it is a measure of the whole Parliament. This House was asked to pass the Bill, and the House has done so, and I claim for the Bill
 1168 1169
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he had no wish to take up the time of the House; but there was Clause 3 which as it stood was susceptible of an interpretation which could not have been intended.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, it still appeared to him that that clause was susceptible of such an interpretation that the Church election committee having half-a-dozen names before it, might strike off first one and then another, until only one person be presented to the congregation, who would thus only have Hobson's choice as respected the choice of their minister. He repeated that that could not have been intended. He might add that he would be willing to accept any words proposed by the Lord Advocate which would answer the purpose of his Amendment, and of other Amendments of which he had given Notice.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, it must be a great satisfaction to the House to find that a measure of that character had approached its last stage without exciting those animosities and heats which so frequently attended the discussion of kindred subjects. He attributed that, in the first place, to the judicious selection of the right hon. and learned Gentleman by whom the measure was introduced into that House. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder had exhibited a perfect mastery of the subject, and had treated it in a way which had secured sympathy and confidence from all parts of the House. He must add, in justice to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Beresford Hope) and of those who acted with him, that that result was partly due to the good sense and judgment they had evinced in yielding to the feeling of the House of Commons, and endeavouring to amend, rather than oppose, the Bill. The greatest source of satisfaction, however, was the unmistakable and irresistible determination displayed by the House to uphold the principles of the Reformation and to insist that the Church of England should be a Protestant Church. The Bill was directed against that section of the clergy who were not Ritualists so much as Romanists. They were best described in the words used in that House many years ago by Lord Macaulay, who said he objected to clergymen of the Church of England combining the pay of one Church with teaching the
 1171
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN : Sir, before this Bill is read a third time, I desire to say a few words upon it, the more especially since I have taken no part in the discussion during its progress through Committee. Perhaps, in so doing, I may be permitted to sot myself right with the House with respect to certain words of mine upon a previous stage of the Bill. I am told that I am supposed to have threatened what is called "factious opposition" to the Bill, and it is possible that words hastily spoken may have borne that construction. Nothing, however, could have been further from my intention. That which I intended to convey was this—that if the Bill was to pass during the present Session, the House must be prepared to sit for a longer period than was at that time contemplated, inasmuch as every detail of the Bill would have to be closely scrutinized before such a Bill could become law. Well, Sir, I think that has been done, and, moreover, the passing of the Bill has been purchased on the part of the Government by the sacrifice of more than one of the most valuable and generally popular measures upon which they had staked their legislative credit for the Session. The alterations which have been made in the Bill are considerable, and I propose to enumerate three of them. First, the delay for which I earnestly pleaded upon the second reading, has been so far granted, that the Bill is not to come into operation until July in next year; Secondly, the Judge is no longer to be paid out of funds heretofore appropriated to the augmentation of poor benefices, against which I was the first to protest upon the second reading; and thirdly, sins of omission, as well as commission, are to be included within the offences with which the Bill is to deal. However, speaking only of details, there are at least two great blots left in the Bill. In the first place the Bishops themselves are not to be amenable to the law which is to govern their clergy, so that the officers and soldiers of the Army are to be subject to different rules of discipline,
 1155 1156 1157 1158
 MR. SYNAN  said, he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman that the Resolution was of a vague description. He hoped, however, the hon. and learned Member for Cork would not press his Amendment.
 MR. ANDERSON  asked the President of the Board of Trade, If, since the question was last asked, he has given any attention to the subject of Ocean Roads, or if he will do so during the Recess, with the view of endeavouring, in concert with other Governments, to establish certain sailing tracks to reduce the risk of collision at sea?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, my attention has not been called officially to the matter; and, indeed, as my hon. Friend is aware, the Local Government Office has little to do with the sanitary affairs of the metropolis; but I have had the opportunity of making private inquiries, and I have been informed that
 1147
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, so long ago as the early part of July the attention of the Local Government Board was called to this outbreak of enteric fever at Clayton West, and they immediately inquired of the sanitary authority about it. They were informed that the disease was attributable to the state of the drains, that disinfectants were being applied, that the sick were being isolated, and that steps were being taken to improve the water supply. So matters stood till last Friday, when, in consequence, I fear, of the extension of the epidemic, application was made that an Inspector should be sent down. This application will be attended to as soon as possible.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : Sir, the Rivers Pollution Commission was appointed in the year 1865, and was reconstituted in 1868. During the time that has thus elapsed they have presented five interesting and valuable Reports. A sixth and final Report is, I am told, in print, and will shortly be presented. Meanwhile, proposals for legislation on the subject were submitted to the House of Commons in 1872, and withdrawn; and a Bill was introduced into the House of Lords last year, referred to a Select Committee, and afterwards withdrawn. So soon as the final Report is in my hands, I propose to have the recommendations of the Commissioners embodied in a shape fit for legislation, so that the Government may come to a determination during the Recess whether or not it shall be submitted to Parliament next Session.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, no one more regretted than he did that there was not a fuller House to hear the clear and able statement of his noble Friend. It was also much to be regretted that the Indian Budget had been brought forward at the very fag-end of the Session, for no one acquainted with the feelings of the people of India could doubt that this would produce the worst possible impression—a worse impression than a more serious practical grievance. In previous years the people of India had, at least, the satisfaction, whatever it might be worth, of being told that the Budget could not have been brought forward, because there was other important Business before the House; but that year they were only comforted by the reflection that the Indian Budget was introduced on the 3rd of August, because a fortnight had been occupied by the Government in struggling over a Bill of which, according to their own confession, they did not understand a single clause. Sometimes he had been accused of taking
 1193 1194 1195 1196 1197 s 1198 d s d 1199 s 1200 1201 1202
 MR. FAWCETT  said, that with the view of indicating the purpose of the Bill, he would propose as an Amendment,
 1221
 MR. FAWCETT  said, the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was quite satisfactory, and he should not offer any further opposition to the Bill.
 MR. FAWCETT  wished to state that the noble Lord had slightly misunderstood him on the subject of the annuity clause. All he pressed for was, that the Government should give him an assurance that they would not surrender their right to avail themselves of it until Parliament had an opportunity
 1218
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he must apologize for rising; but he was not responsible for two Indian subjects coming before the House on the same evening. In the debate on the second reading, those supporters of the Government who spoke in favour of the Bill, indicated their preference for a measure of a very different character, and one which he should be disposed to approve. The hon. Members, however, had not put on the Paper the Amendments they suggested in their speeches, being deterred from doing so by the late period of the Session. Therefore, there was no opportunity of considering the very Amendments which the supporters of the Government had advanced. For himself, he was not anxious to oppose the Bill, but considerable misapprehension prevailed with regard to it. There was the widest divergence between the speech of the Secretary of State on this Bill and that of the Under Secretary, and that divergence had not been cleared up. The Prime Minister had spoken of the approval of the Governor General being obtained before any appointment was made, but there was nothing to that effect in the Bill. If that idea had been put forward in the first instance, it would have prevented any opposition being offered to the Bill, whereas the fact was an impression had got abroad that a very able official, but a very enthusiastic projector was about to be sent out to India at once. Some people were very much alarmed about it. The Under Secretary wished the Bill to pass in order that vacancies might be filled up next spring; but if there were to be that delay, would it not be better to delay the Bill until next Session, when the views of Lord Northbrook could be known? If that were done, and if time were allowed for the consideration of the suggested Amendments, he should support the Bill, because the Public
 1219
 MR. DUNBAR  moved, as an Amendment, to leave out after the word "Act," in line 19, to the end of the clause. The effect of the Amendment was, that the Minister to be appointed would not be limited to the duty of looking after public works, but would be generally available to assist the Governor General in Council.
 MR. O'CLERY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Irish Fisheries Department has received any
 1150
 MR. O'CLERY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of the Government to carry out that portion of the Report of the Inspectors of Irish Fisheries, with regard to having a cutter or gunboat placed permanently under their control for the protection of the fisheries, and to enable the Department to carry out desirable experiments; and, whether it is the fact that, although the Scotch Fishery Board has for this purpose a vessel of 100 to 150 tons, with a crew of 22 men; and, when required, the aid of as many gunboats as may be necessary, the Irish Fishery Department has not under its control even one such vessel?
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether he intends, next Session, to deal with the recommendations of the Royal Commission and the Select Committee of the House of Lords in regard to the pollution of rivers?
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  moved, as an Amendment, the omission of the 2nd sub-section of the clause, on the ground that it limited the assistance to be given to the fisheries of the county of Clare to £170, which would be of no use whatever, and it would be better to leave the matter in the discretion of the Commissioners.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING , in moving that the Bill be considered that day three months, said, the loan was subscribed for the relief of a famine in Ireland, and was not applied in the manner intended. What he would say to the right hon. Gentleman was, let the Bill be withdrawn; and having thus expressed his opinion in reference to the measure, he would move its rejection.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, the Resolution to give support to the Irish Fisheries was of a very vague description, but the Government were anxious, as far as possible, to carry out the wishes of the House in the matter. They had, therefore, introduced this Bill
 1224
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  assured the hon. and learned Gentleman that the sum to be so appropriated was much larger than he supposed. He hoped the hon. Member would not press his Amendment.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, the recommendation to which the hon. Member alludes is contained in the Report of the Inspectors of Irish Fisheries, which has been recently issued, and the Government have not yet had time fully to ascertain whether the requirements of the Fishery Department demand the exclusive use of a cutter or gunboat. I may say, however, that whenever the Inspectors have asked for the use of a Government vessel to enforce the fishery laws or preserve order, their request has been invariably complied with, as far as practicable with other demands on the Royal Marine. For example, they have had the use of gunboats on the East Coast of Ireland, where the herring fisheries are carried on; on the South Coast, at Kinsale, for the preservation of order during the mackerel fishery; and for the salmon fishing at the mouth of the Blackwater, near Youghal. The Scotch Fisheries are much more extensive, and are resorted to by more fishermen of foreign nationalities; and it cannot but be a satisfaction to any one connected with Ireland that it should be more easy to preserve order among her fishermen, and to secure the due execution of the fishery laws in her waters, than is the case in Scotland.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, in December last the Treasury notified to the Irish Government that it was their intention that in future no fresh pensions should be created, and no new recipients of donations nominated in connection with the Concordatum
 1146
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, some Arklow fishermen reported to the Inspectors of Fisheries over a year ago that they believed, owing to having taken up some oysters when engaged in fishing operations outside the Kish Bank, that an oyster bed existed there. The place the fishermen indicated is nearly 14 miles from the shore, and dredging operations can only be carried on during fine weather. The Inspectors of Fisheries contemplated making some investigations last year, to ascertain whether the supposition of their informants was correct, but other engagements prevented them until the season became too advanced. Before this summer is over they propose doing so, and intend forthwith applying for a Government vessel for the purpose, which will probably be granted. The place where the fishermen got the oysters lies off the Wicklow coast, more towards Dublin than Wexford.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH,  in reply, said, he had made it his duty to make a communication to the Treasury on the subject, but he was sorry to say they had not consented to give up the annual payment. He hoped, however, to prevail on them to do so, and should be glad if he succeeded. With regard to retiring allowances for the officers in the department, the Treasury could hardly be expected to provide them, as
 1151
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether his attention has been called to the utterly insufficient accommodation at the Bow Street Police Court, and, when a now Court is likely to be provided, for which £10,000 was voted by Parliament in the last Session of Parliament?
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, that in reference to what had been said by his hon. Friend (Mr. Beresford Hope), he could assure him that the object of the Bill was to put down simply unlawful practices. It was not to put down any one particular party, but to put down disobedience to the law in the Church. It was on that ground alone
 1177
 MR. FORSYTH , as one who for years had taken great interest in Indian affairs, desired to address a few words to the House with respect to the policy pursued by England towards that great dependency. Without attempting in any way to blame the Government, he regretted that the Indian Budget was not brought forward in the House of Commons until the last week of the Session, and he hoped that the sparseness of the attendance would not be considered by their Indian fellow-subjects as evidence of caring little for the welfare of the millions who inhabited that country. He feared they might suppose that the feeling of the House of Commons was that expressed by the Poet Laureate in the line—
 "Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay." 1203 s d 1204 esprit de corps,
 MR. FORSYTH  asked the President of the Local Government Board, Whether his attention has been called to the polluted state of the water in the Regent's Canal, especially that portion of it in close proximity to the Zoological Gardens; and, if it is the fact that the refuse of the animals in these gardens is emptied in the canal; and, if so, whether any action will be taken to prevent the same?
 MR. FORSYTH,  in explanation, said, he wished to say that if the stamp duties had been a tax on lawyers, he would have said nothing against them; but he objected to them because they were a tax upon justice.
 MR. W. GORDON (for Sir CHARLES RUSSELL)  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he is in a position to state the nature of the Government proposals to relieve the pressure ef traffic Between Hamilton Place and Grosvenor Place; and, if the plans for carrying out this object can be shown before the close of the Session?
 MR. MASSEY  said, he rose principally to notice a statement which had frequently been made both in and out of that House on the precarious character of Indian finance. In those remarks he could not concur, seeing that there were £42,000,000 of revenue to which the Indian Government could look with as much certainty as any European Government could look to a similar amount derived from the same sources. There were two great disturbing causes in India; one on the side of income, and the other of expenditure. The disturbing cause on the side of revenue was in respect to opium, the returns from which varied from causes that were inscrutable even to the Indian Government. When he first went to India, the price of opium was 800 rupees a chest, and in the next year, or next year but one, it was selling at 1,400 rupees. That fluctuation in the price of opium showed the great instability of the income of the year in regard to the revenue derived from that article. Over and above the revenue of £42,000,000 to which he had referred, there was a revenue of £8,000,000, which was to a certain extent precarious, and it was on that margin a financier had to operate, and upon which he must carefully and cautiously adjust his income with his expenditure The other disturbing cause referred to expenditure, and it was the outlay upon public works, which was in the hands of a great spending Department. If the two disturbing causes to which he had referred were removed, there would not be a sounder system of finance in any country in Europe than that of India; but so long as these difficulties existed, there must be financial uncertainty, and the greatest possible caution ought to be observed in incurring liabilities which the country might not have resources
 1212 1213
 MR. REDMOND  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he proposes to take any step to put an end to the payment of five hundred pounds annually out of the Irish Fines Fund to the Consolidated Fund, the office on account of which such payment was formerly made having been abolished so long since as the year 1850; and, whether he is aware that no provision exists for superannuation or retiring allowance for the Registrar of Petty Sessions Clerks in Ireland and the officers in his department; and, if it is the intention of the Government to make any provision for that object?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the fact that the Artillery stationed at Woolwich habitually leave Woolwich Common and exercise over Plumstead Common, thereby destroying the surface and seriously interfering with its use for purposes of recreation; and, if so, whether he will take steps to prevent the continuance of the injury; and, whether the opinion of the legal advisers of the War Office has been taken on the point of whether such use of the Common is legal, or whether it is included in the lease of manorial rights to the War Office?
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, after the very able statement of the noble Lord the Under Secretary of State for India that evening, it was not necessary
 1214 1215 1216
 GENERAL SIR GEORGE BALFOUR  said, that it was impossible for economy to be exercised in public works in India while the Governor General was responsible for them.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought the opponents of the Bill were mistaken in supposing that a great increase of expenditure would take place under it, for no such inference was justified by its provisions. Reform was required in the Public Works Department of India, and the remedy for defects of administration would be found in the appointment of a responsible official. It had been suggested by the hon. Member for Hackney that the Bill should be postponed till next Session. He (Sir George Bowyer) did not think that was desirable, for that was not like an English Bill, and if such a postponement took place, it would mean throwing the Bill over for a long time. He thought the House might have confidence that the conclusion to which the Under Secretary invited them was one that was wise and mature. This question ought to be considered as a matter of principle, and it was deserving of earnest consideration whether one person should not be placed in the position of supremacy, and be responsible for these works.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  trusted that in the interval before the Act of 1873, came into operation, the Government
 1223
 MR. ERRINGTON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is intended that the pensions charged on the Concordatum Fund shall in future be given for the lives of the recipients, as was the custom until last year; and, whether it is the intention of the Lord Lieutenant to continue the system of investigating the claims of applicants for pensions charged on this Fund, which was established by Lord Spencer, and gave such general satisfaction?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was a matter of the highest importance that public works should be proceeded with in India without delay, for as matters now stood, there was a want of concentration of responsibility for the construction of such works. If it turned out that works were more expensive than they should be, or that a great mistake had been made, there was now a difficulty in fixing the responsibility, and the consequences were great delay and considerable waste of money. The object of the Bill was to prevent the occurrence of such a state of things by the proper concentration of responsibility, and by the securing of some one person whose duty it would be to look into the matter and see that the work was necessary, and further that it was done, and done in the best manner. But it might be said that some one was to be appointed whose object would be not to promote economy so much as to connect his name with great and ambitious schemes. There was no foundation for such an assertion. The name of a distinguished officer had been freely mentioned, but however flattering the fact was to the officer in question, he could assure the House that there was
 1220
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had denounced to a certain extent, extravagant forms and ceremonies which he described as "the more prominent poppy heads." He argued from that remark that his hon. Friend would like to cut off the heads of those "more prominent poppies." At all events, it was to be hoped that it might be done by this Bill. He would not, like the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugessen) go into the question whether that was "a little Bill, or a small Bill." In his (Colonel Barttelot's) opinion, it was an exceedingly important Bill, the most important the House had had before it during this Session. It was a Bill which had commended itself to the vast majority of the people of this country. It had been supported by overwhelming majorities in that House, and those majorities only reflected the feeling of the country from one end to the other. He wished now for a moment to thank the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder for the tact, courtesy, and kindness with which he had dealt with the difficulties and varying circumstances of this Bill. He would also like to express his thanks to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Oxford (Sir William Harcourt), who in his clear and plain Saxon-English had swept away those canonical cobwebs and rubbish with which it was sought to envelope and obscure the measure, and put in plain language that the law should be obeyed by all parties. One word with regard to the appeal to the Archbishop. In the Bill, as amended in the House of Lords, the provision was contained, though no doubt it did not come down to the House of Commons. But when his hon. Friend the Member for North East Lancashire (Mr. Holt) proposed the appeal, it was carried by a majority of 103 to 37. It was perfectly true when the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Greenwich, moved to omit that provision on the Report the majority was not quite so large, but he would say it with every respect to the Home Secretary, that without having convinced them as usual, many hon. Members did follow the right
 1165 1166
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, be had no intention of taking part in this debate, but after the reference which had just been made to him, he hoped the Committee would allow him to make a very few observations. On the former occasion, having been distinctly referred to by the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Pawcett), he bad felt it necessary to make a personal explanation, and, having done so, he expressly said he would not make any charge or throw any responsibility on his distinguished predecessor. While he was himself perfectly free from any responsibility as regarded that expenditure, his predecessor had given very good reasons why he was equally not responsible. It was a totally different thing when he had to refer to the conduct of the Secretary of State and the India Office, of which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was himself a Member, because he felt it to be his duty to say this—that in the Despatch referred to they were grossly inaccurate, and, being inaccurate, they were also unjust. He repeated it. He said they referred to a particular expenditure as being a new expenditure, which they had the most complete means in their own power of knowing, so far from being a new expenditure, had occurred at least three and a half years before. "With regard to the general question, the
 1207 1208
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : I beg to repeat the statement I made on a former occasion, that on the very first opportunity, finding that a large expenditure was going on, and a large expenditure having taken place——
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : I think the Committee will agree with me that a few words are necessary after the extraordinary speech of the hon. Gentleman, on the good taste of which I will not comment. He has read a Despatch, but in doing so he has put into it certain words of his own. He says that the Government of India complained that the Government of Bombay had so acted that they were committed to an expenditure of nine lacs, and then the hon. Gentleman introduced the words—"During that time you (meaning myself) were Governor of Bombay." I beg to say I was not.
 SIR SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : It was a much shorter time. About three months after I arrived I went up to Poonah. I found an expenditure going on, and I directed an estimate to be made. I found that the Government were committed to an expenditure of nine lacs, but they were committed to that expenditure not during that throe months, but long before I arrived in India. I feel that this is not the place for this discussion, and I offer my humble apologies for introducing these personal matters to the House. The complaint I made against the India Office—against the noble Duke (the Duke of Argyll), who was at its head, and the hon. Gentleman who was Under Secretary—was this—not that they complained of an expenditure of two-and-a-half or three lacs, but that they treated that as new expenditure which had occurred after the Government of India had complained of the larger expenditure. Instead of that it was an adjustment of accounts, the money having been expended two or three years before I went to India.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS,  in reply, said, he had consulted his noble Friend the Lord Chancellor on the subject, and
 1257
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS,  in reply, said, it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to carry out during the Recess the recommendations of the Judges with respect to the redistribution of Circuits in England. Those recommendations were connected with the Judicature Act, and would come into force at the same time as the Act.
 MR. GOUKLEY  asked the Secretary of State for "War, If he will state to the House the names of the places in which "Military Depôt Centres" have been established, and if it is intended to carry out in its entirety the Localisation Scheme indicated in the programme of Viscount Cardwell; and, if the existing "Depôt Centres" furnish recruits adequate to the requirements of the regiments located therein for Home and Foreign Service?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, that the localization scheme sanctioned by Parliament was being carried out, but he need not trouble the House with a number of names of places where steps had been taken at once to carry it into effect. There were 30 already established out of 70, and proceedings were still going on with regard to the rest. Of those which had been established four were not in their proper places; but where they had been established, he understood they were working satisfactorily. If the hon. Member wished to move for the names of the places, he was perfectly welcome to have them.
 ADMIRAL SIR WILLIAM EDMON-STONE  asked the Secretary of State for War, What is proposed to be done with regard to the distribution of Prize Money in connection with the recent Gold Coast Expedition?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, it was at one time proposed that the prize money taken by the British troops at Coomassie and the indemnity paid by the King of Ashantee should be distributed to the troops as prize money; but to that course there were very great objections; and, as there was great difficulty in making a distribution of prize money, it had been thought better to give 30 days' pay to the forces engaged, which, he believed, would be much more satisfactory to them and much more easy to the War Department.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he hoped the Motion would not be pressed to a division, because that would place in a false position many on the Ministerial side of the House who thought the franchise ought to be lowered, though not to the extent contemplated by the hon. and learned Member for Limerick. There were persons occupying houses at rentals of £2 who might be invested with the franchise; but it would not do to admit the class paying 5 s s
 MR. GLADSTONE : I was in hopes that we should have heard at the stage of the discussion which we have now reached the opinions and views of Her Majesty's Government. It is my own conviction that it would have been well if the Government had at an earlier period themselves brought this subject before the House. It was duo to the Government, and due to the House, that they should do so if they contemplate during the Recess any step of a nature which may commit this country with regard to its future policy. But that is a question for the Government, and not for me to judge of. All that I have to say is that I have no desire to take the responsibility out of their hands. I have every desire that they should have a clear stage open to them, without any pre-judgment of questions upon which they ought to be better informed than we can be. I shall hold them entirely and absolutely responsible for the steps they may take in regard to this very important question. I will not attempt to forecast this policy of the Government, an explanation of which in this House has not boon conceded to us; but I will state very briefly the position in which I stand with regard to the Motion now before us, for which the Government are not responsible, and with which we are obliged to deal. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. M'Arthur) requires me to concur with him in stating—
 "That this House is gratified to learn that Her Majesty's Government have yielded to the unanimous request of the Chiefs, Native population, and White residents of Fiji, for annexation to this country, so far as to direct Sir Hercules Robinson to proceed to those Islands." 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 de lunatico inquirendo
 MR. WILLIAM M' ARTHUR  said, he was satisfied with the debate, and, as he had full confidence in the Government, he was willing to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. YOUNG,  in seconding the Amendment, said that, unlike the Mover, he had no connection with Falmouth, but thought, if there were to be a port of call it had better be the most westerly port, and he was, therefore, for going to Falmouth at once.
 MR. ANDRSON  seconded the Amendment. He thought that if any change was to be made in the contract at all it ought to be one in the direction of a reduction of the subsidy. He complained that the conveyance of the mails to India by the Peninsular and Oriental Company took a much longer time than was necessary, and that time could be saved were another Company to be employed. He regarded it as a great misfortune to be tied down by this contract for another six years, because if it were not for such an arrangement, he believed they might even now do without a subsidy. He hoped the Government would not insist upon pressing through this new contract at that late period of the Session.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  seconded the Motion. He admitted that the subject dealt with by the Queen's Letter was a difficult one; but there was nothing insuperable connected with it, nor would it be impossible to grapple with it successfully if proper time were taken for consideration.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he could not allow the debate to close without joining in the protest which had been made against the intended ratification of the proposed draft charter. He also protested against the argument of the Chief Secretary for Ireland, that the passing of the Appropriation Bill, introduced at the end of the Session, afforded a reasonable opportunity for the discussion of such an important question as this. That it was impossible to discuss it that evening was evident from the proceedings of the last quarter of an hour during which two attempts had been made to stifle discus
 1328
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, as I understand the Question of the hon. Gentleman, he does not wish me to pledge myself as to what exercise the Secretary of State for India may make of his present powers, but he wishes me to undertake that those powers will not be surrendered without due consultation with Parliament. I am authorized to state that should any alteration or modification in the present agreements be necessary, the Secretary of State will not surrender the powers of the Annuity Commutation Clause without consulting Parliament. This decision is, of course, not binding upon his successors.
 LORD GEORGE HAMILTON : Sir, on Friday next, I hope these Papers will be in the hands of hon. Members. As the hon. Gentleman is aware, it has been necessary to hold back these Papers in order that Despatches might not be in the hands of hon. Members before they were received by the Governments to whom they were addressed.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE,  in seconding the Motion, agreed with the hon. Member for Lambeth that the Government had taken the wisest course which could be adopted in regard to the Fiji Islands. Their policy would be agreeable not only to Fiji, but also to the whole of the Australian Colonies. It would put down that sentiment which had existed for some time among some of the people of this country—he did not know how that sentiment originated, whether with the late Government or with the late Under Secretary for Colonial Affairs—that it was our interest, as soon as possible, to shake off connection with our Colonies. The position of these Islands was of vast importance to England. There was a distance of 7,000 miles between the Australian Colonies and the continent of America, and it was highly desirable we should have some intervening place for coaling our war steamers and for provisioning our Navy in case of war. He agreed with the account which Commodore Goodenough and Mr. Consul Layard had given of the character of the Natives of Fiji, and he believed there would not be many difficulties or dangers in carrying out the wise policy of Her Majesty's Government. The hon. Gentleman had, however, cast an undeserved reflection upon the work of Lord Pembroke, which was very interesting, and gave a clear notion of the disposition and character of these people. Nothing which the Wesleyans might have done in this country in the past century could surpass the remarkable results of their efforts in Fiji. All the people of the Islands were cannibals 33 years ago. The present Chief, whom it was ridiculous to call a King, had himself been a cannibal; and he could narrate one or two disagreeable anecdotes to show what the Chief had been guilty of. The Returns of the Fijian Mission for the year ending April, 1867, gave the following statistics:—Chapels, 481; other preaching places, 238; missionaries, 12; Native assistant missionaries, 38; catechists, 591; day school teachers, 1,351; local preachers, 474; church members, 17,829; attendants on public worship, 90,442; day schools, 1,215; Sabbath schools, 750. Considering the character of the people, and the dangers and difficulties of the work, this result of only 33 years'
 1273 1274
 MR. A. M'ARTHUR (for Mr. P. A. TAYLOR)  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is a fact that six additional magistrates have been appointed for the borough of Leicester without any recommendation or opportunity for discussion on the part of the municipal authorities; if he will state on whose recommendation such appointment has been made; and, if he will lay upon the Table any Papers relating to such appointment?
 MR. MUNDELLA  said, that as no independent Member had supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth, he wished to say a few words on the
 1300 1301
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker—The Letters of Business issued to Convocation, my hon. Friend will observe, are legal documents. They now lie on the Table. It would be, I think, an act of presumption on my part to offer an interpretation of legal documents. The Letters of Business have been adopted by the present and by the late Government, and I conclude that they are in their tenour appropriate and clear.
 Ms. D. JENKINS  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. D. JENKINS  said, he would not oppose the Motion, but he must object to contracts entered into for so long a period. He could understand that the Company would say that new ships would have to be built for the new contract. That argument might have done well 20 years ago, but would not apply to the present day, as those ships were now built for carrying cargo, and not for mails.
 MR. D. JENKINS  contended that the delivery of the mails would be accelerated by the substitution of the more westerly port of Falmouth for that of Plymouth. It was said that there was but a single line of railway between Falmouth and Plymouth; but a portion of the line between Exeter and Plymouth was also a single line. If advantage was gained by landing at a western port it must be increased by calling at the most westerly port, and, in the merchant service, for one vessel that called at Plymouth for orders, or to land despatches, 50 called at Falmouth. That would not be the case if it were not the better port so far as the saving of time was concerned. The matter had been under discussion 30 or 40 years, and the evidence given before a Committee of this House in 1840 by Captain Evans and Captain Plumley, of the Royal Navy, was conclusive in favour of Falmouth as against Plymouth. Falmouth was between 40 and 50 miles west of Plymouth, and steamships made for the Lizard Point, in passing which they were within three or four miles of the entrance to Falmouth harbour. There was a railway parallel with the sea-coast, and it was absurd to assume that a steamship could traverse the distance in the same time as a railway train. Largo sums of money had been expended at Falmouth in constructing docks, in deepening the harbour, and in connecting the railway with the landing stage, in the reasonable hope that the Government would, in the public interests, select Falmouth as the port of call, seeing that it was connected by railway with all parts of the Kingdom. In conclusion, he moved, as an Amendment, that so much of the West India Mail Contract as authorized the sum of £2,000 per annum for calling at Plymouth with the homeward Mails be not sanctioned.
 MR. HERMON  said, it was he and others, who had urged the Government to land the mails at Plymouth, who were chiefly to blame for the decision in the matter which had been arrived at. If it could be shown that if the mails were landed at Falmouth they would be received in the North of England 12 hours earlier, he should be happy to give the hon. Member for that borough his support on a future occasion.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  thought that in the Motion and Amendment before the House, and in the speeches delivered in support of each,
 1293 1294 "They have full power and authority to make the cession: and, were we to add anything to this, we should say the lesser Chiefs and people are more anxious for annexation than the high Chiefs." "had taken the greatest pains to insure obtaining a real record of the actual wishes of the Chiefs and people, and we consider the above-named document is as accurate a representation of that wish as can possibly he obtained.' "scattered, had continual quarrels among themselves, and wove not in the least degree dangerous, though their depredations might be annoying." 1295 usque ad nauseam
 MR. ANDERSON  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he has yet decided as to the scale of remuneration for Assessors of Income Tax in Scotland?
 MR. ANDERSON  said, there could be no doubt that in the preparation of this second contract a great mistake had been made by the Government. Notwithstanding that in the late contract there was no stipulation to call at a western port, still, when the new contract came up, the Government forgot altogether about a former omission.
 1306
 MR. FAWCETT  remarked that the Queen's Letter would not prevent this subject being brought fully under the consideration of Parliament next Session. He should not approve of this scheme, which was imperfect, as a final measure of re-organization, but he regarded it as merely a basis for further reform. ["Divide!"] As it appeared that he was not to be heard he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. FAWCETT  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether he can promise, on behalf of the Secretary of State for India, that the right to purchase the Indian Guaranteed Railways, under the Annuity Commutation Clause, will not be surrendered, as it already has been in the case of throe Railways, until Parliament has expressed its opinion on the subject?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he thought it would be better that the House should confirm the present contract. He was a Member of the Committee of 1864, which looked carefully into the question, and he also took part in the debate of 1868 when the original contract was adopted. What the House ought to appreciate was this, that when the contract was settled, there was not the smallest idea of the route through the Suez Canal being available for any purpose whatever. That, however, was now practically the sole route to the East, and therefore they had to deal with an entirely different state of circumstances. This fact ought to be taken into consideration, and although he regretted the original contract, yet as he had heard from the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Secretary to the Treasury that a saving to the public of from £20,000 to £30,000 a-year would be effected, besides other advantages, he approved of the confirmation of the agreement at the present time.
 MR. BUTT,  in rising to move—
 "That, having regard to the importance of the changes in the constitution of the Dublin University, and the period at which the draft of the proposed Queen's Letter has been laid upon the Table of this House, it is desirable that before they are finally sanctioned, a fuller opportunity should be afforded for their consideration than is possible during the present Session." 1326
 MR. BUTT  said, that Ireland returned 64 county Members, two University Members, and at present, being shorn of two borough Members, 37 Members for towns. There were only 50,000 persons in the whole of Ireland who enjoyed the town franchise, and of these 28,000 were electors for the city of Dublin and the borough of Belfast. Only 22,000 people outside of Dublin enjoyed this franchise, and it was a total mistake to suppose the reason was there were no urban constituencies. The city of Armagh had a largo population and more electors than many boroughs in England which returned Members, and he should be sorry to see it disfranchised. What he affirmed was, that before 1867, when the Reform Bill for England was passed, there was comparatively a small number of borough electors in England, and the Reform Bill of 1867 trebled the number of borough electors in England, but the Reform Bill passed for Ireland scarcely increased them at all. There were four principles carried out in England which were not applied to Ireland. In England the franchise was lowered to make it a household one; in Ireland the franchise was left at £4. In England boundaries were extended, but not in Ireland. Occupiers were rated as far as possible in England, but not in Ireland. There was partial disfranchisement in England, or rather in Scotland, and seats were transferred from small to large constituencies; and there was ample room for applying that principle to Ireland. If these four principles were carried out in Ireland many grievances and anomalies would be corrected. In England there were 1,336,000 borough electors, and in Scotland 181,000; and in England and Scotland one in eight of the borough population was enfranchised, while in Ireland the proportion was one in 16. The application to Ireland of the rules which prevailed in England would double the electoral body. The Act of 1868 had scarcely increased the constituencies of Ireland. It was a mistake to suppose that the borough franchise had been lower in Ireland than ever it was in England. The qualification was
 1263
 MR. HOLT  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Letters of Business issued to Convocation, authorizing that body to consider and report on the Fourth Report of the Ritual Commission, are to be understood to authorize them to make suggestions as to changes in the Rubrics not recommended by the Commissioners?
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, there was one portion of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman in which he cordially agreed, and it was that in which he recommended the hon. Member for Lambeth not to persevere with his Motion. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the responsibility for the annexation of the Fiji Islands or otherwise should properly attach to Her Majesty's Government, and he certainly did not seek to throw any portion of that responsibility from the shoulders of Her Majesty's Government to those of the House of Commons. He could not so heartily endorse some other portions of the right hon. Gentleman's speech. The right hon. Gentleman, following up what had fallen from the hon. Member for Chelsea, proceeded to argue that the institutions of Fiji were founded upon a
 1288 "The old position of the great body of Natives towards their Chiefs is one of undefined serfdom, moderated by certain customs. A Chief has food brought to him and to his followers, and has always been accustomed to exact contributions of mats, oil, &c, from those who look to him as their head." "These contributions, which are necessarily vexatious because uncertain and arbitrary, have been and are still made at the present time, and are greatly valued by the Chiefs as, perhaps, the greatest proof of superiority they can show." 1289 "Every native executive officer to draw the aforesaid allowances contingent upon the actual performance, in respect to Fijians, of the duties confided to him. Should any high native officer be removed from his post, his place to he filled by the next man of his family entitled to succeed him by Fijian law or customs." "The Government of Her Britannic Majesty to concede and preserve to the Chiefs and people of Fiji, under any form of British Government, an equitable share in the Councils of State, and, in the event of Fiji becoming a Crown Colony, to appoint not less than four Fijian Chiefs to seats in the Executive Council." 1290 nucleus 1291 1292
 MR. DODSON  said, he had no interest or feeling either for or against the Peninsular and Oriental Company, or any other Steam Packet Company. His only anxiety was that that should be done which was best for the public service. This contract had been prepared with very insufficient attention, and better terms might have been made, as he believed, for the public. There were no fewer than 14 blunders in the contract as originally drafted in July last. They had been corrected; but it was mainly through
 1315 1316
 MR. DUNBAR  asked the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether the Papers relating to the Bombay Riots will be distributed to Members before the close of the Session?
 MR. VANCE  regretted that the matter had not been brought forward earlier in the Session and before so many Irish Members had left town. The hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. Bruen) had given Notice of his intention to move the rejection of the Bill, and doubtless would have been prepared to reply to the hon. and learned Member, who, however, had travelled very much beyond his Bill, that was simply a measure to reduce the franchise in Ireland from one of £4 to a general household suffrage. He had to thank the hon. Member for his intention not to disfranchise his borough in his new Reform Bill; but there was little doubt if he carried the Bill he now proposed, instead of a majority which he had at present, he would absorb the whole representation of Ireland under the banner of Home Rule. Before the last Reform Bill the franchise in Ireland was at £8; it was now reduced to £4, and the reason for fixing £4 was that below that rental the landlord always paid the rates. In the present state of Ireland it would be a dangerous experiment to reduce the franchise below £4. Below that line they would introduce a class of people who were not worthy of the franchise, and who were not intelligent enough to exercise it.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he thought that his hon. Friend who brought forward this Motion had not fully appreciated the subject really before the House, and it appeared to him the only course open to them was to accept that which had been recommended by the Secretary of the Treasury. In 1867 a contract was
 1313 1314
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  pointed out that the tenders were open tenders, and that the Company having proposed to start from Southampton on more favourable terms than could be obtained from others, the proposal was accepted. Subsequently, memorials had been received pointing out the importance of Plymouth. The Supplementary Vote was one which, under the circumstances, he thought the House would do well to assent to.
 MR. LYON PLAYFAIR  said: This contract should not be ratified by the House until its bearings on the general interests of commerce and of shipowners have been fully considered. The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Company is very highly subsidized by the State, and partly through that subsidy, but largely also by its own energy, has a magnificent fleet of vessels which have been an important means of keeping up our communication with Eastern countries. Principally and chiefly, in its relations to the public, it is a service for carrying mails speedily. Its vessels, in the light of cargo and passenger vessels, are incidental to that service, and have no claims to the consideration of the Government. Its subsidy is purely for mail transit, and is sufficient for that purpose. If it build largo vessels for cargo and passengers, care must be taken that the interests of these do not affect injuriously the mail service, for which alone the public pay £450,000 per
 1319 1320 1321 1322 1323
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, that no doubt the draft charter was only laid upon the Table in July; but there had been many opportunities afforded for the matter to have been brought under the consideration of the House if hon. Members were anxious to do so. Even on Saturday last at 2 o'clock, the hon. and learned Member had a fair opportunity of discussing the matter, but neither he nor the hon. Member for Tralee (the O'Donoghue) had availed himself of that opportunity. The hon. and learned Member for Limerick and the hon. Gentleman who seconded his Motion rather exaggerated the importance and purport of the document which would, if acted upon, simply and solely carry out the legislation of the last Session of the last Parliament. There was nothing in the proposed Queen's Letter which would in any way debar any hon. Member who looked at the question from a denominational point of view from bringing it forward next Session.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  resumed: The hon. and learned Member
 1327
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : Sir, the Board consider the Act in reference to these monuments to be confined to their preservation and not to their restoration. For the former the assistance of a superintendent, skilled in practical appliances and technicalities of building, is, in their opinion, of the first importance, and such a person they contemplate employing. But should circumstances arise at any time to render it necessary that the advice of an archæologist should be obtained, they would feel it their duty to seek for such advice.
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of the Board of Works in Ireland to carry on the repairs of the National Monuments for which funds have been vested in them under the 25th and 26th sections of the Irish Church Act, without obtaining the assistance of an Inspector specially skilled in the ancient architecture of Ireland?
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  could not see how it was possible for them to adopt any other principle than that there should be a fair and real representation of Irish feeling in that House. Parliament could not eventually resist the demand made by the Irish people, either that they should be allowed to manage their own affairs or be placed on a perfect equality with England and treated as an integral part of the United Kingdom.
 MR. MUNTZ  believed the question to be a very simple one; it really amounted to this—whether for 12 months at all events, and possibly for five years, the public should suffer a loss of £24,000 and the mails be delayed 24 hours, simply because some private companies might otherwise be interfered with. The question was precisely the same as that which had been brought forward last year in respect to the Transatlantic mail. He should vote for the Motion with the object of getting the mails delivered earlier.
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have seen various reports and statements of the nature referred to in the Question. They have no reason to suppose that armed intervention in the present disturbances in Spain is contemplated by any European Power. No such intervention certainly is contem
 1261
 MR. BOURKE : I understand that the Sultan of Zanzibar has upon one or more previous occasions intimated his wish to pay a visit to England; but no communication to that effect has reached Her Majesty's present Government. Two or three days ago a letter was received from the Sultan of Zanzibar; but there has not yet been sufficient time to ascertain Her Majesty's wishes upon the subject.
 MR. SAMPSON LLOYD  observed, that the £2,000 was paid not because the mails were delivered at Plymouth, but because they were delivered at some port other than Southampton; and there were serious objections to Falmouth and Southampton which did not apply to Plymouth. He would remind hon. Members that a Committee of the House of Commons had decided in favour of Ply-mouth, and he hoped, under these circumstances, the Amendment would not be accepted, especially as by making Plymouth the port of call the people of Glasgow and the North of England would receive their letters several hours earlier.
 MR. T. E. SMITH  said, he thought the opinions that had been expressed were somewhat affected by geographical influences. As an unbiassed Member, it appeared to him strange that Her Majesty's Government should be willing to pay £2,000 per annum additional for having the mails landed at a port, the convenience of which mercantile men did not recognize. He trusted the hon. Member for Penryn and Falmouth would go to a division on the subject.
 MR. T. E. SMITH  said, that the question was really whether an entirely new trade should be thrown open to the Peninsular and Oriental Company, and whether in carrying on that trade they should receive aid and subsidy from the Government. Under the present contract they might, if they liked, use either London or Liverpool instead of Southampton, and he did not, therefore, regard the compensation offered by the Company as anything like adequate to the advantage they would receive. He should vote for the Amendment.
 MR. W. H. SMITH  moved—
 "That the further Contract between the Postmaster General and the Royal Mail Steam Packest Company, under which it is provided that the Vessels of the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company shall call at Plymouth on their homeward voyage to land the Mails, he approved."
 MR. W. H. SMITH  rose to move—
 "That the Contract entered into between the Postmaster General and the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company for the conveyance of the East India, China, and Japan mails be approved." 1308 viâ vice versâ 1309 1310
 MR. W. H. SMITH,  in rising to move that the Contract entered into with the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company for the conveyance of Mails to and from the West Indies be approved, said, this contract had been entered into to effect a service very nearly the same as that which was now conducted for a much larger sum of money. The only omission from this contract was that of the service to Mexico. The subsidy to be paid under this contract was £84,750, as against a payment at present of £172,914, and the contract was to continue for five years. Her Majesty's Government had advertised for tenders, and besides that received from the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company, a second had been received from Messrs. Alfred Holt and Company for £129,000, and a third from another West India Steam Company for £120,000. It would be satisfactory to the House to know that the very serious loss sustained by the public as between the postage realized by the Post Office and the amount paid to the Company was now reduced almost to nothing—at least, it would not amount to more than £12,000 or £14,000 a-year, instead of £80,000 or £90,000. He was perfectly ready to answer all questions, and would now simply move that the contract be approved.
 MR. RATHBONE,  after presenting a Petition from the Liverpool Chamber of Commerce praying the House not to approve the contract, moved, as an Amendment, that it be not approved this Session. He and those who agreed with him felt no want of confidence in the Secretary to the Treasury; they acknowledged his anxiety for the public purse and his desire for the promotion of trade. The hon. Gentleman had met the representations which had been addressed to him in a candid spirit, he had withdrawn one contract and accepted modifications in another, and the very fact that he had done so showed how necessary it was that when a question of such difficulty, of such wide bearings, and important consequences to the trade of the country was proposed, there should be no undue haste, but that ample time should be given for its consideration. The original contract was made on the 9th of November, 1867, before the Government had time to receive representations on the subject of the great improvidence which was being shown. It was made for 12 years at a period when the greatest improvements were being-effected in the construction of steamers, and when there was every prospect of the mails being carried with increased celerity. When the contract was made the main sources of revenue contemplated by the Company and the Government were the mails and the passengers. The quantity of goods carried was small, but the opening of the Suez Canal made an enormous difference in that respect. It was notorious to everyone acquainted with the shipping trade that if such a
 1311 1312
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  was un-willing to withdraw his Amendment until a division had been taken.
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  said: Mr. Speaker, my Amendment says—
 "That having regard to the necessity 'of subjugating and removing' 20,000 ferocious mountaineers, and to the fact that domestic slavery is pronounced by Commodore Goodenough and Consul Layard, in their official Report, to be 'the foundation of social order' in Fiji, it is necessary that great caution should be used in approaching the subject of annexation." 1275 "There was not only the greatest possible difficulty in Fiji on the question of the land titles, which were inextricably confused," "In the course of two years," he said, "so reckless was the financial administration of the Government there that £124,000 was spent, and a debt of £87,000 remains as a legacy.…. The calculations of the Commissioners are not as satisfactory as I could have desired—indeed, I think, they are illusory—.… The first few years will be years of difficulty." 1276 "I do not mean to say that the Report of the Commissioners is, in my opinion, an altogether satisfactory one. I do not think the calculations of the Commissioners are so reliable that we can trust to them on all important points." "to bring the Mountaineers under subjection by military force and to occupy their land. If Fiji were under this country nothing of the kind would occur."—[3  Mansard 1277 "there existed among the Mountain tribes many barbarous practices, which it would be impossible to tolerate in a British possession, but which could not be eradicated without great difficulty and no inconsiderable labour and expense."—[3  Hansard "It has, curiously enough, been my lot this year to propose to Parliament two Colonial policies, one with regard to the Gold Coast, and the other with regard to Fiji, …. which, if they differ in many respects, yet agree in this." 1278 "can only be altered very gradually, and that any abrupt general change in this direction would weaken the authority of the Chiefs, who are now, and should be for some time to come, the Rulers of their own people under the Central Government. The old system should, in short, be allowed to exist on sufferance, unacknowledged, but, except in the case of extreme exactions, not interfered with. To abolish it, would be to take away the foundation of social order." 1279
 MR. BATES  said, the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that when this question was discussed before, it was merely with reference to the respective merits of Southampton and Plymouth, the point discussed having been whether Southampton, Plymouth, or Falmouth should be selected. The Committee which sat to consider the question unanimously came to the conclusion that Plymouth was the best place at which the mails could be landed, and consequently the mails had been landed at that port since 1869. The late Government in drawing up the new contract had accidentally substituted Southampton for Plymouth as the place for landing the mails, and he having pointed out the mistake and numerous Petitions from Liverpool and other commercial centres in favour of Plymouth having been received the mistake was remedied. He did not think that for the sake of effecting a saving of £2,000 per annum, commercial men would consent to receive their letters by these mails 24 hours later than they did at present, which would be the result of landing the mails at Falmouth instead of at Plymouth. Falmouth was a very good and a very nice port; but it could not compare for convenience with Plymouth, which vessels could enter at all times of the tide and in any state of the weather. Under these circumstances, he did not think the hon. Member would seriously press his Motion.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID,  in seconding the Amendment of his hon. Friend, said, he would confine himself to two points. In the first place, there had been no such cession as the Resolution of the hon. Member for Lambeth asserted; so that if they adopted that Resolution they would be affirming what was distinctly contrary to the fact. The Resolution declared that
 1280 1281
 MR. GOLDNEY  said that the Peninsular and Oriental Company offered to accelerate the the mails by 24 hours, and to give the public £24,000 a-year on the condition that they should have the same trading facilities as other companies. The request was one which he
 1324
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been directed to certain reports and statements in the Continental papers regarding or encouraging foreign intervention in Spain; whether the Government have received any and what information on the subject of such intervention; and, whether Her Majesty's Government is prepared to use its influence in favour of the maintenance of the principle of non-intervention, that the Spaniards may be left to settle their own affairs?
 MR. ERRINGTON  supported the Motion in no spirit of hostility to an institution of which he was proud. He declined, however, to sacrifice the educational interests of Ireland to what he regarded as the selfish interests of a small and select Governing Body.
 MR. ERRINGTON  resumed: He would suggest that only that part of the Queen's Letter which would abolish tests should be acted upon, and that the residue of the new scheme should be reserved for future consideration.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  expressed Ms regret that the Postmaster General, being confined to his house by rather severe indisposition, was unable to be present on that occasion, seeing that no one was able to enter so fully into the subject as be could do. As far as the Treasury bad received information on the matter, it appeared that the contract having been originally made to land the mails at Southampton, commercial gentlemen residing in Scotland and the North of England thought they would be prejudiced by the consequent delay in the delivery of their letters, and a large number of memorials, signed by gentlemen of considerable standing and eminence in the commercial world, were presented to the Postmaster General and to the Treasury on the subject. The effect of these memorials was to induce the Treasury to accede to the proposal of the Postmaster General that this additional sum of £2,000 per annum should be paid in order to enable the mails to be landed at Plymouth instead of Southampton. The hon. Member for Penryn and Falmouth had now, with laudable zeal, put in his claim on behalf of the constituency he represented, and certainly no one who knew the West of England, and especially Falmouth, would fail to appreciate the merits of that port, with the charms of which he was personally acquainted. But, at the same time, not one of the memorials to which he had referred had suggested that Falmouth should be selected as the port for landing the mails; and, doubtless, the Postmaster General had been influenced in his decision in favour of Plymouth by that fact, and also by the fact that there was only a single line of rails running eastward from the former place, the traffic on which was of a very slow character. He thought the feeling of the House would be entirely in favour of the decision of the Postmaster General, who had no interest whatever in selecting one of these ports rather than another.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not know that it would be necessary for him, or agreeable to the House, that he should attempt to follow the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Dodson) through all the details of his statement. He very much regretted that the Postmaster General was not in his place, as he could reply more directly to the right hon. Gentleman's statements.
 1317 1318
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, he understood a great many of these gentlemen had already received their payments, and that the others were in the course of receiving them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, the subject had been under the consideration of the Board of Inland Revenue, and they had recommended that the Assessors in Scotland should be allowed such an addition to their statutory poundage in 1874–5 as would make their emoluments equal to the amount of poundage in 1872–3, when
 1260 d
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  observed that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down apparently possessed more faith in any Cabinet composed of English gentlemen than he did in his own Leader, who sat beside him; and his speech afforded only another proof that it was absolutely impossible for any two Gentlemen to rise upon the front opposition Bench without diametrically contradicting one another. The question before the House was not as to whether it was advisable to adopt a policy of abandonment, against which the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. Lowther) had so strongly protested, but whether we should give our sanction to a policy of annexation. That was a matter which demanded the most careful consideration. His hon.
 1296 1297 "Worthless adventurers driven from other countries by their evil habits and other faults, have sought a refuge among these islands in numbers out of all proportion to the rest of the settlers, and by their example and influence too often lead their weaker minded neighbours in their footsteps." kava "Producing a partial paralysis of the muscular system, together with a lethargic state of the sensibility, without the excitement, coma, and following discomfort of drunkenness, has recommended it to many when alcohol cannot be got." "Its taste has been compared to that of Gregory's Mixture combined with soapsuds, and its appearance to that of dirty dish water, &c. Of the presence of  delirium tremens 1298 delirium tremens 1299 bonâ fide
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Sultan of Zanzibar, since the signing of the Treaty in May last year, has not, through Her Majesty's Representative, intimated a wish to visit England; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Government will not, in view of furthering the object of that Treaty, deem it expedient to facilitate such a visit?
 MR. CHARLEY  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to carry out, during the Recess, the recommendations of the Judges with respect to the redistribution of Circuits in England?
 MR. CHARLEY  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he will state when the allowance of one year's back pay, promised to the Custom House Clerks at the out ports, will be paid to them?
 MR. WILLIAM M'ARTHUR  rose to move—
 "That this House is gratified to learn that Her Majesty's Government have yielded to the unanimous request of the Chiefs, Native population, and White residents of Fiji, for annexation to this Country, so far as to direct Sir Hercules Robinson to proceed to those Islands, with a view to the accomplishment of that object." "On this general review of the circumstances, your Lordships will not be surprised to hear that it is the feeling of Her Majesty's Government that they cannot decline the duty of accepting these Islands. If we do not decline them, we accept them; and it then becomes important to know how this is to be done." 1265 1266 bona fides 1267 "There is no reasonable prospect that a Native Government can continue to preserve order; it is, indeed, impossible for them to do so." 1268 "I believe the difficulties, when boldly faced, will not be found to be so very formidable, provided the cession comes to us untrammelled by unworkable conditions; and although I am quite aware of the magnitude of the task, I, for one, shall not be afraid to encounter it." 1269 1270 "That this House considers that, having regard to the existence in the case of Fiji of difficulties caused by a heavy debt, by the necessity of 'subjugating and removing' 20,000 ferocious mountaineers, and by the fact that domestic slavery is pronounced by Commodore Good-enough and Consul Layard, in their official Report, to be 'the foundation of social order' in Fiji, it is necessary that great caution should be used in approaching the subject of annexation." 1271 "Fiji is blessed with a most virtuous native race, who, aided by the good teaching of the missionaries, have managed to keep themselves wonderfully free from the contamination of the vices of civilization." South Sea Bubbles "No Minister in this country will do his duty who neglects any opportunity of re-constructing, as much as possible, our Colonial Empire and of responding to those distant sympathies which may become a source of incalculable strength and happiness to this land." 1272
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, the troops in occupation of Preston Barracks, near Brighton, had an exercising ground up to the year 1864, when it was given up because it was unsuitable for that purpose; and from then to this time there had been no exercising ground except the parade ground which
 1330
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, that the position of Sergeants would occupy the attention of the War Department, but that Good Conduct Warrants did not apply to them, because it was through their good conduct that they were sergeants, and besides they were entitled to medals and pensions.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, that the Governors of Jersey and Guernsey had been informed that unless they put their Militia on a proper footing the Grant for the re-organization of the force would be withdrawn. They had recently been requested to send in their proposals before the 1st of October this year, and until he had these proposals before him he could not state what the intentions of the Government were.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS,  in reply, said, that the Report could be found in the Library of the House. It was a bulky volume, and he had not had time to call the attention of the Government to it. His attention had been called to the state of the Laws of Jersey, in consequence of certain proceedings which had recently taken place there. The result was, that he had given instructions that an arrangement should be made for an interview between himself and the Governor at some convenient time during the Recess, in order to confer upon the subject of such administration of the law.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, the colonnade to which my hon. Friend the Member for Cambridge University refers consists of 36 columns; but the base and entablature being curved, there would be great difficulty in adapting it to any other style of facade than that for which it was originally designed. The cost of removing it from Burlington House to Battersea Park, where it now lies, was £850, and it could not be re-erected, even on its present site, for less than £2,000 or £3,000, at a low computation. And now, I wish to make an observation to my hon. Friend, and to say that I venture to think that on this occasion he and I ought to change places. Seeing that it was mainly by the powerful advocacy of my hon. Friend that the colonnade was preserved, I really think that
 1334
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY,  in reply, said, that since January last 218 soldiers had occupied Sheerness Barracks, and that of those 20 had been received into the hospital for ague, and 26 for other kinds of fevers.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS,  in reply, said, it was the intention of the Government early next Session to bring in a measure dealing with the subject into which the Royal Commission on the Labour Laws had inquired.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS,  in reply, said, it was the intention to cause an inquiry to be made as to the operation of the Fisheries Acts on the River Tweed, but it had not yet been decided whether it would be by Committee next Session or by investigation on the spot.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, after the right hon. Gentleman has himself delivered an animated defence of his own Colleagues, it is not for me in any respect to criticize the quality and character of that defence. If, however, we are to indulge in that most vicious practice of discussing, on the consideration of Lords' Amendments, speeches made by individual Peers in "another place"—and I do not blame the right hon. Gentleman, for he could not help himself—though of that vicious practice the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the City of Oxford has given us to-day one of the most conspicuous and most objectionable examples I have ever known afforded, I am justified, in mitigation of judgment, in merely saying as much as this—deriving my information only from the most ordinary sources, I did not understand any noble Peer to have used the words "blustering majority"—if they werr ever used at all, which I very much doubt, with reference to any decision of a majority of this House—and I did not understand anything whatever to be said in criticism of the conduct of that majority. I pass from that subject to make two or three remarks on the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. Perhaps it may be hardly in good taste for me to comment on the nature of the appeal which he has addressed to those who originally not only thought that legislation in this matter was justifiable, and who thought
 1361 1362 1363 1364 1365 jus divinum 1366
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS  said, it would he absolutely useless to pass the second reading at the present period of the Session. He agreed in the view taken by the hon. Member for South-wark, and as there were one or two principles in the Bill to which he entertained a strong objection, he should therefore move its rejection.
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, the Metropolitan Board of Works had ample powers at present to acquire sites in the metropolis for purposes of public recreation, and with great advantage they were exercising those powers in the Bill now before the House; they had not time to look at it, and it was thus quite impossible for them, since its introduction, to give it any consideration. Being unnecessary, he hoped it would be rejected.
 MR. GOLDSMID  thought the strange combination by which the Bill was promoted (Mr. Whalley and Sir George Bowyer) was very suspicious. He supported the Amendment.
 MR. MONK resumed : "First Fruits" were supposed to represent the first year's profits of a benefice, and "Tenths" one-tenth of the annual income of such benefices. The origin of these charges was somewhat obscure. Early in the 13th century "First Fruits" were levied by the Pope on the clergy of this country, and in 1292 a valuation of the benefices was made by Pope Nicholas III., and for between 200 and 300 years these charges formed part of the Papal usurpations over the clergy of this Kingdom. In 1533, by the 25th of  Henry Henry 1381 Liber Regis s d s d s d s d 1382
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has yet made arrangements for the re-erection of the Colonnade of Burlington House, and on what site?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : After that Answer, I give Notice that I shall repeat the Question some time next Session.
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, I agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just concluded, that this is one of the gravest questions that have ever been brought before Parliament—at least, in my experience. My right hon. and learned Friend, the Recorder, has told us, in moving that the Amendment of the Lords should be accepted by
 1355 1356 1357 1358 1359 amour propre 1360
 SIR CHARLES ADDERLEY : The stationing of lifeboats on the coasts of the United Kingdom is not one of the duties of the Board of Trade, but is, for the most part, managed by the Royal National Lifeboat Institution. The Board of Trade station sets of rocket apparatus and provide belts and life-lines wherever these appear to be desirable. The places at which lifeboats, sets of rocket apparatus, and life-lines have been provided in the neighbourhood of Dungeness will be seen in a statement which the right hon. Gentleman shall have communicated to him. Last year, a company obtained an Act for the purpose of constructing, among other works, a pier and landing-place at Dungeness.
 MR. MONK,  in rising to call attention to the unequal incidence of the payments of First Fruits and Tenths by the Clergy; and to move—
 "That it is expedient that the payment of "First Fruits" to the Governors of Queen Anne's Bounty should be abolished, and that there should be a revaluation of all dignities and benefices in England and Wales, with a view to an equitable re-adjustment of "Tenths" on a moderate and graduated scale, 
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, I thank the hon. and learned Member for the City of Oxford for his admirable exposition of the Constitutional and Ecclesiastical Law of this country. I heard what fell—I cannot call it an answer to the speech of the hon. and learned Member—from the right hon. Member for Greenwich; I listened then to the First Lord of the Treasury, and I asked myself "What are we to do?" The First Lord of the Treasury has informed us that the House of Commons has got into a corner; that we must either give up the Bill or the Amendment, by which the House has affirmed the right of appeal to the Archbishop from the judgment of a Bishop, who may decide
 1367 1368
 GENERAL SHUTE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will consider the advisability of extending to Serjeants whilst serving, the advantages of the "Good Conduct Warrant," which is granted to corporals and privates, as a reward for length of service, combined with good conduct, or whether he will propose any other scheme by means of which serjeants may receive increased remuneration in proportion to their very responsible and increasing duties, resulting from the short service Act, and the consequent much larger number of Recruits and young Soldiers?
 GENERAL SHUTE  asked the Secretary of State for "War, Whether it is true that the troops in Preston Barracks, Brighton, have been for about six years without any drill ground, notwithstanding the repeated representations of the officers commanding the cavalry regiments that have in succession been quartered there; whether the present War Department will take steps to procure proper exercising grounds; and, whether he will consider the advisability of passing an Act to enable Government to purchase or rent a right of trespass on waste, down, and partially uncultivated lands, in the neighbourhood of some of the cavalry barracks, with a view to rendering considerable tracts of country available for a more efficient practice of outpost duty?
 MR. DAVID JENKINS  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign affairs, If he has received information that a Duty of eight per cent has been recently levied by the Egyptian Government (without any official notice) on all coal landed at Port Said and Suez, intended for consumption by steamers passing through the Suez Canal; if he is aware that the French Government have protested against the impost as illegal; and whether Her Majesty's Government will take steps to ascertain if this tax, so seriously affecting British Shipping trading to the East by that route can be legally enforced?
 MR. D. E. PLUNKET,  as one of the Representatives of Dublin University, wished to say for himself and for the Governing Body of that University, that they were glad an opportunity had been afforded of discussing this matter in that House. Such Queen's Letters were not of necessity brought under the cognizance of Parliament, but as the present one was more important than usual, the Governing Body desired it to be freely canvassed. He had observed with regret the attempt made to "count" the House last night during the speech of the hon. Member for Hackney, but the friendly advice he had given to-day to the University, by whom the hon. Member had stood so faithfully, would, he had no doubt, receive its calm consideration. Various schemes had been under deliberation; and the slow promotion of the Junior Fellows of the College had been adverted to. It should, however, be remembered that the disestablishment of the Irish Church had deprived the College of some valuable patronage, and perhaps the compensation money it was to receive for these losses might afford an opportunity of improving the position of the Junior Fellows in this respect. The principal objection now urged to entertaining the Queen's Letter and to its receiving the Royal Assent was, that time had not been given for its consideration; and although it was not suggested that any attempt had been
 1376 1377
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, considering the recent fatal collision between the "Hankow" and the "Millbanke" off Dungeness, and the great loss of life constantly occurring in the channel, he is prepared to station a life ship at Dungeness point, and to provide a landing place on that point?
 MR. SYNAN  said, he was by no means opposed to the interests of the Dublin University, but he must protest against the scheme in the Queen's Letter as not affording a proper basis for the establishment of a national system of education. He had no objection to the first part of the scheme, and would recommend that it be adopted; but as to the second, which was partial and imperfect, it ought not to be adopted until an opportunity had been afforded to the Irish people to see whether a National University could be founded upon it. All he asked was that the scheme should be suspended until the country had had sufficient time to consider it.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH : No such draft Order exists as is alluded to in the Question, nor have I any present intention of issuing one. The suggestion that the metropolitan pauper schools should be united under one or more Boards of Management is under consideration. It is possible that it might be necessary to apply to Parliament for further powers, before it could be carried into effect; but whether that be so or not, I may
 1337
 MR. FAWCETT  asked the President of the Local Government Board, If it is his intention to issue an Order uniting the several Metropolitan Pauper Industrial School Districts, and to form one Metropolitan School District; and, if so, will he send to each Board of Guardians a copy of the Draft Order, and delay the issue of the same until after the re-assembling of Parliament?
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he could not help expressing his regret that so many attempts were made on the previous evening to "count" the House, as he thought it evinced a great disregard of an important subject that deeply concerned Ireland. In speaking on the subject, he maintained that the Queen's Letter consisted of two parts. It gave power to Trinity College and the University of Dublin to carry out the Act passed last Session; and the authorities of the College and. University had endeavoured in the internal regulations they had framed in this Letter to carry out the Act with most scrupulous fidelity and care. But the Queen's Letter also contained a scheme for the partial reorganization of the College and University. It was objected that that was a partial and imperfect scheme, and could not be regarded as a final settlement of the question. Now, he agreed that the fact was so, and to that extent he concurred in the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick; but even the scheme which was contained in the Bill he first brought forward on this subject, though it went considerably further than that contained in the Letter, could not be regarded as a final settlement, but only as putting both bodies in a better position for reforming themselves in future. It was in that light that he looked upon the Queen's Letter. The practical question was, would the Letter place the authorities of the College and University in a better position sooner or later to develop a more complete and final settlement of the question? He begged to repeat the opinion he had often expressed, that he placed entire confidence in the liberality, enlightenment, and sagacity of the authorities of the College and University; but he felt that he should not be acting towards them the part of a true or a sincere friend if he did not add that no settlement could be final which left the Board with so much power as was now proposed, and he would impress on them that permanence for the existing Board was out of the question. He must also urge them to develop a more liberal and national organization, as it would be quite impossible to permit the whole affairs of the University to remain in the hands of a Board consisting exclusively of the Provost and the seven Senior Fellows. He hoped they would
 1375
 MR. CHAINE  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Board of Public Works in Ireland have made any rule whereby they refuse to advance money to tenants under the 44th or 47th sections of the Land Act (Ireland) 1870, unless the title be one by sale in the Landed Estates Court, Ireland; whether any case has come before the Board of
 1331
 MR. HOLT  said, he could not but feel that the position in which the majority were placed was one of considerable gravity. As the author of the Amendment, he begged to say he had no personal feeling in the matter; but the House having accepted his Amendment, and having on a subsequent occasion confirmed it, he must solemnly protest against the course they were now compelled to take. He admitted that the majority on the second division had not been so great as when the Amendment
 1371
 MR. DUNBAR (for Captain NOLAN)  asked the Secretary of State for War, How many men under one year's service have occupied the Sheerness Barracks since the 1st of January 1874, and what has been the percentage of fever and ague amongst them?
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to request the States of Jersey to take into serious their consideration "The Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Civil, Municipal, and Ecclesiastical Laws of the Island of Jersey," which was ordered on the 21st April, 1859?
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Government intend to withdraw the subsidy granted to the Channel Islands Militia should the authorities in the Islands be unprepared with proposals for the re-organization of the force, in accordance with the recent Circular issued for that purpose by Her Majesty's Minister at War, such proposals having to be returned before the expiration of the year 1874?
 MR. LOCKE  said, there was nothing in the Bill of the slightest importance, and he suspected its promoters had discovered the fact; he was therefore not surprised that they had absented themselves from the House.
 MR. WHITWELL  said, he desired to enter his protest against the reasons assigned by the majority in the other branch of the Legislature for disagreeing to the Proviso giving power of appeal to the Archbishop. When once a Court of Law was created, it became, in his opinion, most unfair and unreasonable to raise up an authority preventing anybody who felt aggrieved having access to it. That would be the case if the Bishop intervened between the Judge and the complaining parishioners. As, however, there was a general opinion that it was undesirable to go into the Lobby against the Lords' Amendment, he should refrain from doing so. He must, however, express his satisfaction at hearing the Prime Minister declare his determination to maintain Protestantism, without any other consideration than that of its being in accordance with the Constitution of the country, and the best ground of the continuance of the rights and privileges of the laity.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was one of those who had a strong opinion of the clause which had now been altered in "another place;" but his right hon. and learned Friend, who had exercised a very sound discretion, not only with regard to that portion of the Bill, but in all other parts of it, having agreed to the change, he did not think the House could do better than adopt his advice.
 1372
 MR. MITCHELL HENRY  contended that the system of education which now prevailed in Ireland, had been introduced from without, and that it was opposed to the wishes of the majority of the people in the country, as well as to those of the minority; opposed to the feelings of the Roman Catholics, as well as to those of the Protestants. He believed that the Protestants of Ireland were as anxious as the Roman Catholics for religious education. With regard to the changes which had been introduced into the University of Dublin, for the purpose of admitting Roman Catholics, he could only advise the House to allow that matter to remain as it was at present. It was impossible to suppose that this Queen's Letter could ever settle the question of education in Ireland. The more imperfect that settlement was at the present moment, the louder would become the demand for a clear and more comprehensive experiment in future. The people of Ireland had a right to settle the religious education they desired, and it was absurd to imagine that because England and Scotland were Protestant, the Roman Catholics of Ireland should agree to their settling the question on the basis of secularism. The Protestants of Ireland were quite as much dissatisfied with the Queen's Letter as the Roman Catholics; and he would suggest that it should be sent back to the University, so that a wiser and more comprehensive scope might be given to it. Residents in Ireland did not, in many cases, educate their children in the Dublin University, because they knew that promotion there was so slow. These were questions interesting, not only to the Roman Catholics, but to the Protestants of Ireland, and it would be better for the Government to investigate the matter, send the Letter back for reconsideration, and when it came up again, to give it that consideration which its importance demanded. The hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Fawcett) himself had admitted that it was an imperfect document and an inadequate settlement of the question. He was, therefore, surprised that the hon. Member should wish it to be issued in that hasty way. So long as the Governing-Body proceeded bit by bit in the way of reform, what peace could be hoped for in that seat of learning. He had always looked on with wonder at the course
 1379 1380
 MR. BOURKE,  in reply, said, that recently news had been received at the Foreign Office that such a duty had been imposed by the Egyptian Government; next, that no official information had been received of the French Government having protested against it; and, thirdly, the Government, as at present advised, believed that under the Treaty of 1861 it was a legal imposition, and could be enforced, although the Egyptian Government had hitherto refrained from imposing it.
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, there was another Amendment of the Commons which the Lords had rejected, to which he would first refer—namely, that relating to the chapels of the Colleges in the Universities. The Bill, as it came orginally from the Lords, exempted those and other chapels from the operation of the Act, but the Commons brought them all under it. The Lords had now altered the Amendments of the Commons, but had not specially exempted the chapels from the Act. He had felt a doubt whether many of the chapels could be properly brought under the Act, and whether they could pro-
 1338 1339 "it is most desirable that an opportunity should be afforded of amicable conference between the bishop, the incumbent, and complainants, which the proposed Amendment would have rendered difficult." jus divinum jus divinum 1340 1341
 MR. BRISTOWE  trusted his hon. Friend would not press his Motion. He (Mr. Bristowe) did not dispute the anomalies of which his hon. Friend had complained; but he thought his hon. Friend had selected an inconvenient mode of bringing forward a question which would involve the taxation of a great number of the clergy who had hitherto been exempted.
 MR. W. H. SMITH,  for the Post master General, said:—The attention of the Department has been drawn to the delays and irregularities in the mail service in the North of Scotland; but the statements which have been made as to the intention of the Post Office to send these mails as goods parcels by railway are altogether incorrect. The Post Office has no such intention, but wishes to send these mails in the manner strictly prescribed by law, and to pay the railway companies such an amount for the service as may be settled by arbitration; or, if they prefer it, as may be fixed by the Railway Commissioners. The law requires railway companies to carry mails in the manner required without interposing any delay; but the directors have thought proper to direct that the bags shall be taken out of the train, letting the train go on while the bags are being weighed. The protests of the Post Office have had no effect, and it has been necessary to forward the bags by road, until an amicable arrangement can be made with the companies, or steps can be taken for carrying out the provisions of the law. The Postmaster General is not prepared to order a train at fixed hours from Bonar Bridge to Wick and Thurso, as an efficient and regular mail service can be maintained by means of the existing passenger trains.
 MR. W. H. SMITH : Sir, the Board have not made any rule of the kind described by the hon. Member. Where, however, the application for an advance is made under an agreement proposed to be carried out under Section 1, Sub-section 3, of the Amending Act of 1872, the Board have required that the landlord shall have a Parliamentary title, and that the estate is unencumbered. When encumbered, they have recommended that the sale should be carried out under Section 32 of the principal Act. One case only of the nature in question has come before the Board. In that case information was verbally requested on behalf of Mrs. Maria Stuart, as to whether, having bought a townland from the Court of Chancery in England, the Board would advance to her two-thirds of the purchase money of that part of the town-land which constituted her own farm. In reply to that inquiry, the Board's Solicitor stated that, under the circumstances, the loan could not be made; but, on a further written application from Dr. Traill, acting for Mrs. Stuart, he was informed, on the advice of the Solicitor, that her case would be re-considered upon his applying by Memorial—forms of which had been sent to Mrs. Stuart—with abstract of title, and reminding him that the case must fall within the 32nd and 33rd sections of the Land Act, 1870, as amended by the 1st section, Sub-section 3, of the Act of 1872, to enable the Board to lend. To that communication, which was dated the 17th of April last, no reply has been received.
 SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT : We are placed, beyond doubt, in a situation of grave embarrassment by the course which the House of Lords has pursued; but it does not belong to the office of any private Member to vindicate the independence and dignity of this House. We have among us a man to whom the task belongs, and who is adequate to its fulfilment. We have a Leader of this House who is proud of the House of Commons, and of whom the House of Commons is proud. Well may the Prime Minister be proud of the House of Commons, for it was the scene of his early triumphs, and it is still the arena of his later and well-earned glory. Although we differ in political principles, we all recognize that he has ever maintained that dignified decency which contributes so much to the well-regulated conduct of public affairs; and therefore it is that the right hon. Gentleman is not more admired for his talents than he is respected for his behaviour in the conduct of the business of this the first Assembly of Gentlemen in the World. It may be necessary that the House of Commons should look to the right hon. Gentleman to-day to vindicate its honour and its dignity. If there be any one—I will not say who—who should any-
 1342 Laughter 1343 1344 1345 jure humano jure divino posse comitatûs 1346 Congé d' élire 1347 Blackstone Blackstone's Commentaries Blackstone "For their ecclesiastical tribunals (which are principally guided by the rules of the Imperial and Canon Laws as they subsist and are admitted in England, by no right of their own, but upon liare sufferance and toleration from the municipal laws) must have recourse to the laws of that country wherein they are adopted to be informed how far their jurisdiction extends, or what causes are permitted and what forbidden to be discussed and drawn in question before them. It matters not, therefore, what the Pandects of Justinian or the Decretals of Gregory have ordained. They are here of no more intrinsic authority than the laws of Solon and Lycurgus, curious, perhaps, for their antiquity, respectable for their equity, and frequently of admirable use as illustrating a point of history. Nor is it at all material in what light other nations may consider this matter of jurisdiction. Every nation must and will abide by its own municipal laws, which various accidents combine to render different in every country of Europe." 1348 Parergon Juris Canonici Anglicani "An Archbishop may, by virtue of an appeal made to him, compel his Suffragan Bishop to the administration of justice, if he be negligent therein." Ecclesiastical Law "The Archbishop hath two concurrent jurisdictions, one as Ordinary or Bishop in his own diocese, the other as superintendent throughout his whole province of all ecclesiastical matters, to correct and supply the defects of other Bishops." "That in all these eases of the clergy the Archbishop had two concurrent jurisdictions; the one ordinary with the Bishop in his diocese, the other superintendent throughout his province of things ecclesiastical, to correct and also to supply the defects of the Ordinary." "That by the Common Law the Archbishop hath a metropolitical jurisdiction, and that Arch-
 1349 "Though there may be a co-ordination amongst the Bishops  jure divino jure ecclesiastico qua humano atterius orbis Papam legati nati 1350 1351 1352 1353 1354
 SIR GEORGE DOUGLAS  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government to make any inquiry into the operation of the Fisheries Acts applying to the River Tweed and its tributaries; and, if so, when and in what form?
 MR. PENDER  asked the Postmaster General, If his attention has been called to the inconvenience arising from the delay in the Mail Service in the North of Scotland, and to the following: That as the Contract held by Mr. Croall of Edinburgh, for carrying the Mails to and from Caithness by a stage coach, which was contingent on the opening of the new Railway, expired on Friday, and as the Post Office department have not come to terms with the Railway Companies, the counties of Caithness and Sutherland are at present practically without Mail Service; that the Mails from Wick and Thurso for the South were despatched by train as goods parcels on Saturday in charge of a Mail Guard, who having failed to provide himself with a passenger ticket, was turned out of the train at the Kildonan Station, and left behind with the Mail bags; that the Mail bags for the North arrived at Bonar Bridge Station on Saturday by the passenger train, but as the weighing of the bags as goods before passing on the Sutherland line occupied some time, the train started before the operation was completed, and the letters for the two Northern Counties, and Orkney as well, had to be delayed there; that the hour for closing the Mail bags at Wick has, for some considerable time, been 10 p.m., but on Saturday last a notice was posted up in the window of the Post Office that the Mail bags would be closed at 7, p.m., and that there would be no further despatch until 4.40 a.m. on Monday; and, if so, these inconveniences being of daily occurrence, the Postmaster General is prepared to secure the regularity of the correspondence by ordering a train at fixed hours from Bonar Bridge to Wick and Thurso, as is now done on the whole distance from London to Bonar Bridge?
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich must agree with him that great tact, courtesy, and moderation had been used, with rare exceptions, on both sides of the House, in the discussion of this Bill. He would not for one moment depart from that spirit; but he was bound to say the majority in that House had been placed in a very grave and a very awkward position, and it would require great temper and tact to get them out of the difficulty. He had the highest respect for the other House of Parliament, but he regretted their decision on that particular matter. He felt that decision would be scanned from one end of England to the other. It would be asked, how the majority had been composed—how the Archbishops and Bishops had voted?—and when it was found, as he believed, that the Archbishops had voted in one lobby and the suffragan Bishops in another, comments would be made reminding them of those who sat on the Episcopal Bench in the memorable days of the disestablishment of the Irish Church; and the question would be asked, what the Bishops did on that particular occasion, and whether they then supported that Church to which, as he believed, they were bound to give their support? If that was the question outside, it would also be a question inside the House; and the statement they had heard from his right hon. Friend the Prime Minister, he was bound to say, was rather a curious one. The great majority of the Conservative Party, as well as a large number of those hon. Gentlemen who sat on the opposite side, representing the Protestant feeling of the country more largely perhaps than it had ever before been expressed since the Reformation, had been called upon to pass a Bill to put down Ritualism, and when they had supported it by every means in their power, they were now told it would be a dangerous thing to disagree to this Amendment of the House of Lords, because the Bill would be lost, and that those who had supported that Amendment would be de-
 1369 1370
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER,  in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, he did so for the purpose of gaining information respecting it, neither of its founders being present. The Bill enabled the Metropolitan Board of Works to purchase and accept by way of gift any sites in the metropolis offered to them for the recreation of the public. By the 3rd clause, in case of division of opinion among those possessing the right to sell, the holders of two-thirds could bind the other third. He should like to know whether under the Bill the Metropolitan Board of Works would have power to inclose whatever sites they might acquire?
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home De-
 1335
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in reply, said, he was sorry his hon. Friend had thought it consistent with his duty to repeat to-day in a formal manner the Question which he put on Friday last in an informal manner, and which he (the Attorney General) had then declined to answer; lest, however, his motive in declining to answer should be misunderstood, he now proposed to reply to the Question. But, before doing so, he would, with the permission of the House, make a brief statement relative to the position of the Attorney General in regard to matters of this kind, because he did not think it desirable that popular opinion should be brought to bear on a Law Officer of the Crown, with the view of influencing him, when he had under his consideration matters on which he had to give a  quasi quasi ex officio 1405 1406
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, it appeared from the Question put to him by the hon. Baronet that there was some dispute with regard to the title, but he disclaimed having rested the rights of the War Office on the grounds stated by the hon. Baronet. In the Answer he had already given, he said the War Office had used the Common since 1745, and continued still to do so. In view of further proceedings being taken, he must decline to make any further statement on the subject of title.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, he had ordered a telegram to be sent at once to Aldershot to ascertain the truth of the report, but he had not received a reply before coming down to the House. He had therefore no special information to give the hon. Gentleman on the subject. If such an offence had been committed, the offenders would, it was perfectly clear, be proceeded against in the Criminal Courts of the country, and it would not be till subsequently that any steps would be taken by the military authorities.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, that as personal reference was made to him in this Notice, he asked permission of the House to make an explanation on the subject. The proposed Motion contained a serious charge, if not directly, at least inferentially, that ought not to have been put forward by an hon. Member who absented himself. It was stated in the Notice that he was removed from his commission in the Kerry Militia. There was, however, no foundation for such a statement. He resigned the commission which he held in the Kerry Militia because, the regiment being quartered in England, he found it inconvenient at the end of a Session not to be able to return to Ireland for a few months. The Notice also insinuated, with reference to his restoration to the commission of the peace, that he had carried on some correspondence with the Executive in Ireland and the Lord Chancellor. He begged, however, to state that he never carried on a correspondence directly or indirectly with the Irish Executive, the Lord Chancellor, or any other official, with respect, to his restoration to the commission of the peace.
 COLONEL LEARMONTH  asked the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, If his attention has been called to the case of the cabman, who was recently sentenced at the Middlesex Sessions to six months' imprisonment with hard labour for running over a boy while crossing St. Martin's Lane, and, whether, taking into consideration all the circumstances of the case, he is of opinion that the sentence is too severe?
 MR. ALEXANDER M'ARTHUR  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, When the question of the disputed Boundary at Delagoa Bay, which the English and Portuguese Government have agreed to refer to the President of the French Republic, will proceed to arbitration; whether he is aware that the Portuguese Government have published a series of Despatches in which their claims are set forth in considerable detail; and, whether, therefore, Her Majesty's Government will lay upon the Table the complete Correspondence?
 MR. SYNAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he can give any assurance that the Irish Government will revise the Rules and Regulations for the Government of Lunatic Asylums in Ireland, under the Act 8 and 9 Vic. c. 107, s. 9, with a view "to alter or revoke" the rule in relation to tenders that has given offence to some Governors of Lunatic Asylums in that country?
 MR. SYNAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH , in reply, said, there had been some Correspondence between the War Office and the Local Government Board upon the subject of these nuisances, but as the Correspondence was not yet completed it was
 1408
 SIR HENRY SELWIN-IBBETSON , in reply, said, no information of any sort had been submitted to the Home Secretary on this case, and until it was he was not in a position to say anything on the subject.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Dr. BALL) , stated that the object of the Irish Government in sending Mr. May to Londonderry, where the rioters were tried, was to ascertain the real truth in relation to this matter. That gentleman, who was selected for his well-known impartiality, had returned to Dublin; but he had not yet had an opportunity of communicating with him. Until he received full and accurate information he could not undertake to say what course the Government would pursue. Discussion on the subject was not desirable at present as further summonses on which proceedings would be necessary had been taken out in regard to the riots. The only reports yet sent in stated that justice had been
 1414
 MR. BIGGAR , in whose name a Notice stood on the Paper that he would move for a Copy of Correspondence between the Irish Executive, the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and The O'Donoghue, M.P., with reference to his removal from the Magistracy of Ireland and the Kerry Militia in 1862, and his re-appointment to the Magistracy in 1873, not being in the House when his name was called by the Speaker,
 MR. DILLWYN  asked Mr. Attorney General, If he will state to the House to whom he referred when, in answer to a Question by the honourable and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Hayter) he stated that his predecessors were responsible for the Clause in the Scheme for the regulation of St. John's Hospital, Bath, which would confine the governing body of that charity to persons signing a declaration of membership of the Church of England? The scheme was very objectionable, and hon. many Members were anxious to know whether anyone on that (the Opposition) side of the House was answerable for it.
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  called attention to the trials of the Kilrea riot cases at the Londonderry Assizes, and to the observations of Mr. Justice Barry thereon; and moved—
 "That this House is of opinion that an investigation into the conduct of the Magistrates referred to by the learned Judge is necessary in the interests of impartial justice, of peace, and good order in Ireland."
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the trials of the Kilrea riots at the Londonderry Assizes, and to the observations of the learned judge (Barry), who said—
 "In one part of your remarks I agree with you, Mr. May—that this collateral issue has been fully developed, yet I am hound to say that Mr. Rea has opened up for my consideration one of the most startling events in my professional career—namely, that a number of men, armed with bludgeons, were allowed, by magistrates and police, to go here and there through the town, and commit two audacious acts of violence, while they were well known to the police;" "It is the wildest nonsense to think for a moment that an attack was not premeditated, or that the party armed with sticks and bludgeons would not have attempted to stop the processionists had the police not been there. So much for that; and now we come to 'another branch of the case which I wish to dispose of at once. I may say that this, the most unpleasant part of the case, consists in the fact that only four persons of the bludgeon party are for trial, although we have the fact proved that a body of bludgeon men, armed with weapons, prepared with sticks, not accidentally—that this organised party, well described as organised ruffians, committed under the eyes of two magistrates present, and in the presence of a large party of police, two distinct acts of riot, and we have it in evidence that a list of the names of the parties was taken down by an active and intelligent policeman at the time. That policeman is enabled to name not five, or six, or seven, or eight, but a whole string of names—I do not know how many—of these ruffians who were rioting in the town that day, and it is a lamentable thing that more of these men have not been sent for trial." 1410
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that as the hon. Gentleman's Question had been laid on the Table only that morning, he had been unable to obtain the necessary information to answer it fully. The observations which were attributed to Mr. Justice Barry on the occasion which was referred to were quoted from a newspaper, and must be received with considerable doubt, and he had no official Report. He was afraid that both parties in these unfortunate riots were equally to blame. They had been dealt with with perfect impartiality, and a great many of the offenders had been committed for trial, Mr. May, the Law Adviser of the Castle, having been sent especially to conduct the case. The Attorney General for Ireland, he might add, would shortly have an opportunity of communicating with Mr. May on the subject.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH , in reply, said, that the Rules and Regulations of the Irish Lunatic Asylums had recently been most carefully revised by a Committee of the Irish Privy Council, specially appointed for the purpose. An objection had been made by the Governors of the Limerick Lunatic Asylum to one of the Rules relating to tenders, and on inquiry it was found that the view of the Governors of other Lunatic Asylums in Ireland was not the same as that of the Governors of the Limerick Lunatic Asylum. He was informed that some of the Governors of the latter had resigned and others were likely to follow their example; and, therefore, he would consider whether it was in any way possible to alter the Rule in accordance with their wishes. It was evident, however, that there must be one uniform Rule for the whole of Ireland.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : I have received a telegram from the Crown Solicitor of the County Down (Mr. Murland), which is as follows:—
 "I did not exclude any person from the jury because of his religion. I directed four jurors to stand aside, two of whom were from the
 1413
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  Sir, I have communicated by telegraph with Dublin, and find that the Local Government Board have no official relations with Kilmainham Hospital or with Dr. Carte, the medical officer, the hospital being under the War Department in Ireland. I understand, however, that the water supply of that establishment was not very good, and that there has been an outbreak of typhoid fever there. I am further given to understand that in consequence of this outbreak, provision was made to obtain a supply from the Vartry River. I believe that the works necessary are at present proceeding. There is no special hygienic qualification required for medical dispensary officers in Ireland, but all such officers are either "physicians and surgeons" or "surgeons and apothecaries," and must have been educated and examined in subjects which relate to what is called "hygiene," and as the legislation of the present Session has imposed important sanitary duties on these officers, this branch of medical knowledge will doubtless receive from them more careful attention than they may have hitherto bestowed upon it.
 MR. CALLAN  then proceeded, pursuant to Notice, to call attention to the exclusion by the Crown of Catholics from the Jury in the case of Mr. Arthur Donnelly at the late Assizes for the county of Down; and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the ordering to 'stand by' of Catholic jurors by the Crown Solicitor, more especially in the North of Ireland, and in eases of a party character, is a course of proceeding not calculated to enhance confidence in the impartial administration of the Law, and demands the serious attention of the Irish Executive."
 MR. CALLAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention had been drawn to this case tried before Mr. Justice Fitzgerald at the late Assizes for Down, and to the fact that four persons had been excluded from the jury because they were Roman Catholics?
 MR. CALLAN  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What reasons, if any, exist for subjecting the stores of corn
 1411
 MR. BOURKE , in reply, said, that great interest was felt by the people of this country in the proceedings of the Brussels Congress, but he did not think that any anxiety was felt. He held in his hand the second part of the Correspondence, relating to the Rules that were proposed to govern military warfare, which he intended to lay on the Table. Should any other Correspondence take place during the Recess which the Secretary of State might think it desirable to publish it would be made public through the columns of  The London Gazette
 MR. BOURKE : Sir, the Protocol by which it was agreed to refer to the President of the French Republic the question of the disputed Boundary at Delagoa Bay was signed on the 25th of September, 1872, and it stipulated that the cases were to be presented within 12
 1404
 MR. W. H. SMITH : Sir, it is not stores, but mills and kilns, which are under Excise inspection in Ireland, the object being to prevent the malting or preparation of corn for illicit distillation. The power of inspection and the reason for it is contained in the Act 1 & 2  Will
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether, looking to the great anxiety that exists in the country on the subject of the Brussels Conference, it will be possible to issue during the Recess any Papers bearing upon the proceedings of that Conference?
 SIR CHARLES W. DILKE  asked the Secretary of State for War, If he would explain to the House why, if the use of Plumstead Common for Artillery exercise is defended on grounds of prescriptive use, the War Office has, since the date of the determination of the suits against the lords of the manor, taken a lease of the manorial rights from the Lords?
 SIR EARDLEY WILMOT , in rising to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to confer a clasp as well as a medal on those Officers and Men in Her Majesty's Service who took part in engagements with the Ashantees south of the River Prah, after the late War broke out, and before the arrival of the European Troops, especially at Elmina, Essaman, Abra Krampa, and Donquah, and who thereby materially caused the retreat of the enemy from the Protectorate into his own Country: and, to call attention to the decoration of the Victoria Cross,"
 SIR JOHN GRAY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If the Local Government Board, Ireland, received any report from the medical or other officers of the Kilmainham Hospital, Dublin, respecting the recent outbreak of typhoid fever in that institution; and, if not, will he, as President of the Board, cause an inquiry to be instituted, and a report to be made, as to the number of cases of typhoid fever that occurred in the hospital this year, the class of residences in which they occurred, the opinion of the medical officer, Dr. Carte, and of the medical gentlemen who were consulted as to the immediate cause of the outbreak, and place such report upon the Table of this House for the information of the sanitary authorities of the kingdom; and if, having regard to the fact that hygiene is not made a necessary part of the education of medical officers licensed for the Civil Service, the Local Government Board intends to adopt any means of en-
 1407
 MR. BOORD  asked the President of the Local Government Board, If any Correspondence has taken place between that Department and the War Office in reference to the nuisances arising from certain factories in the neighbourhood of Woolwich and Plumstead; and, if so, if he would have any objection to lay Copies of such Correspondence upon the Table of the House; and, if the attention of the Local Government Board is being directed to the subject?
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been called to a report which has appeared in the newspapers of a ruffianly outrage which is said to have been committed on defenceless women by a party of armed soldiers from the North Camp at Aldershot; and, what steps the Military Authorities propose to take in the matter?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, the Reports relating to the Hospital were not laid before the War Office, but before the Commanding Officer in Ireland. A communication would be made on the subject to the Commanding Officer, who, he had no doubt, would furnish the desired information, and he anticipated there would be no objection to laying the particulars before Parliament.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, that the Returns were now practically complete, with the exception of those relating to the counties of Anglesey and Carnarvon, and the boroughs of Chelsea and Grantham. He hoped the Returns would be ready for circulation in a very short time.
 MR. ASSHETON CROSS , in reply, said, he could not promise that the Government would bring in a Bill on the subject, as there would be so much to be done next Session; but it was undoubtedly a subject which deserved the attention of Parliament. The hon. Member himself would be rendering great assistance, with a view to legislation upon this subject, if he would submit a Bill embodying his views.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in reply, said, he was afraid he could give no other
 1423
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, in answer to the Question of the hon. Member for Longford County, I have to say that the "efflorescence" in question on the magnificent frescoes of Maclise of the meeting of Wellington and Blucher commenced to show itself shortly after the picture was completed in 1861, and from that time it has unhappily spread over the whole face of the picture. For myself, I wish I could say positively that the picture is not permanently injured. More than a year ago Mr. Richmond examined the picture, and he stated that in his opinion by a delicate treatment he could remove the "efflorescence" without injury to the rest of the picture. That opinion, however, was contradicted by other artists as eminent as Mr. Richmond, and the matter was allowed to drop. With regard to the second part of the Question, I would only ask the hon. Member to call this afternoon at the Royal Gallery, and he will see for himself most painfully that the "efflorescence" has not been removed.
 THE LORD CHANCELLOR  said— My Lords, and Gentlemen,
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in reply, said, that last night he received a telegram, which had been confirmed by letter, that no outrage had been perpetrated on women, but that certain recruits connected with one of the regiments at Aldershot broke out of the barracks during the night, and attacked some public-houses and some houses of
 1425
 LORD ERNEST BRUCE  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there is any prospect of Her Majesty's Government being shortly enabled to remove the Life Guards' Barracks from Hyde Park to some other situation, so as to widen the important thoroughfare of Knightsbridge, and thus confer a great boon on the public, especially on that important and constantly increasing district of the Metropolis?
 MR. MONK  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, "Whether he has considered the Report of the Convocation of the Province of Canterbury with respect to the abolition of First Fruits, and the re-adjustment of Tenths; and, if so, whether the Government are prepared to take the recommendations contained in that Report into consideration, with a view to legislation next Session?
 MR. M'CARTHY DOWNING  wished it to be understood that the hon. Baronet had not expressed the general feeling of the Irish Members, and he trusted that the Government would not listen to the hon. Baronet's suggestion.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH : It is true, Sir, that the South Riding of the County Tipperary is now subject to an annual charge of about the amount named in the Question for extra police force; but it is by no means accurate to state that not a single man of that extra force is in the Riding. There are a considerable number of vacancies in the total nominal force of the South Riding, but not more than the average number for the whole of Ireland. By 29 & 30  Vict.,
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, in that case, to put himself in Order, he would move the adjournment of the House. He believed that the withdrawal of the Bills had given great satisfaction to the Judges and to the Bar both in Ireland and Scotland, and certainly to the Bar in England. In Ireland, the abolition of the appellate jurisdiction of the House of Lords was looked upon as uncalled for, unnecessary, unconstitutional, and revolutionary; and it was considered that the Court which was proposed to be constituted in lieu of the House of Lords was unsatisfactory, and would certainly not carry with it that dignity, weight, and experience which attached to the Upper House. He trusted the Government would not allow themselves to be dictated to by the noble Lord to whom reference had been made, and who, with another noble Lord, had adopted a most dictatorial course.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to call attention to what he regarded as the dictatorial nature of a speech which had been made by a Member of the Government in "another place" on the previous day. The noble Lord in question had endeavoured to pledge the Government not to reconsider the question of the jurisdiction of the House of Lords as the final Court of Appeal, but to re-introduce the Judicature 'Bills in the shape in which they had been withdrawn.
 MR. ERRINGTON  asked the Chief Commissioner of Works, Whether it be true, as stated in the "Morning Post" of the 5th instant, that Mr. Richmond, E.A., has examined the two water-glass pictures by the late Mr. Maclise in the Royal Gallery of the Palace of Westminster, and has ascertained that they are not permanently injured; and, whether it be true that the "efflorescence" which exhibited itself some time ago has been removed?
 Mr. SPEAKER  informed the House, that he had received from Lord Neaves, one of the Judges for the time being for the trial of Election Petitions in Scotland, pursuant to the Parliamentary Elections Act, 1868, a Certificate relating to the Election for the Wigtown District of Burghs, to the effect that Mark John Stewart was duly elected and returned as Member of Parliament for the said Wigtown District of Burghs.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Baronet that there was no Question before the House.
 SIR HENRY HAVELOCK (for Mr. DODDS)  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Re-
 1422
 SIR JOHN GRAY  asked the Secretary of State for War, If he received any report from the medical or other officers of the Kilmainham Hospital, Dublin, respecting the recent outbreak of typhoid fever in that institution, and its supposed origin; and, if not, will he cause an inquiry to be instituted, and a report to be made, as to the number of cases of typhoid fever that occurred in the hospital this year, the class of residences in which they occurred, the opinion of the medical officer, Dr. Carte, and of the medical gentlemen who were consulted as to the immediate cause of the outbreak, and place such report upon the Table of this House for the information of the sanitary authorities of the Kingdom?
 SIR JOHN GRAY (for Mr. MOORE)  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland,
 1424
 SIR WILFRID LAWSON  asked the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has received any information as to the outrage said to have been perpetrated by soldiers at Aldershot?
